 Business expansion through training and development  Introduction  It is about helping individuals to gain knowledge, learn new skills and develop a wide range of attributes. Development makes  Aldi is a leading retailer with over 8,000 stores worldwide. It  employees more adaptable and more able to take on a wider  continues to expand in Europe, North America and Australia. The  range of roles.  Aldi brand is associated with value for money. Its stores provide customers with a wide range of products. There is an emphasis on  This case study will demonstrate how Aldi’s training and  high quality products and providing excellent value for customers.  development programmes help ensure its employees have the skills and competencies that the business requires both now and  Aldi’s slogan is ‘spend a little, live a lot’. It works hard to keep  in the future.  prices low for its customers. The company buys large quantities of products from carefully selected suppliers. Its buyers are experts  Identifying training needs  who choose the best quality products at the most competitive prices. The savings achieved by sourcing products in this way can  Workforce planning is the process of finding out how a business  be passed on to customers. Aldi keeps costs down in other ways.  will meet its labour requirements both now and in the future. Aldi,  It ensures its operations are as efficient as possible, for example,  like other businesses, needs to predict its future staffing needs  store layouts are kept simple and opening hours focus on the  accurately. It needs to plan for both the number of workers it will  busiest times of the day.  require and the specific skills that the business will need in the future. The company can then recruit new staff if necessary. It can  Aldi places great importance on how it trains and develops its  also ensure that it has training and development programmes in  employees. Training is the process of providing employees with  place to meet these needs.  the necessary knowledge and skills to perform their tasks and roles competently. Training not only helps to increase business efficiency but it can also make staff more motivated by increasing their job satisfaction. While training is narrowly focused on helping a company become efficient and effective in the short term, development is more about building the long-term capabilities of the workforce.  Aldi identifies future training needs through an ongoing analysis of company performance in key areas at all levels. For example, the company monitors the availability of its products to the customer within its stores. If the level of availability drops below the targeted level then a programme of training on order accuracy would be undertaken. It also considers future developments within the business and within the grocery retail sector in order to predict both the total numbers of staff it will need and, more crucially, the skills and competencies that will be required. Aldi’s rapid expansion means that its current workforce cannot meet its future staffing requirements. The company will need to recruit more than 4,000 new members of staff within the next 12 months to meet the requirements of current exceptional sales growth and new store openings. To attract the best candidates, it offers industry-leading salaries at all levels.  8  Curriculum topics covered: • Identifying training needs • On-the-job training • Off-the-job training • Development  