ALDI STUDY  29/8/12  10:21  Page 5  www.aldi.co.uk  Conclusion Aldi seeks to provide its customers with quality products at prices that provide value for money. It wants efficient operations, with its stores staffed by people who are keen and competent. Aldi’s success is shown by the fact that it is expanding rapidly. It is opening new stores and experiencing sales growth that requires it to take on more staff. This means that it needs to combine good recruitment policies with robust selection processes. Staff are recruited from school or college into Aldi’s apprenticeship scheme or directly into stores for positions from store assistant up Through a development programme, employees can obtain  to trainee Store Manager. Those from university with a 2.1 degree or  transferable qualifications that benefit the individuals concerned as  better are able to apply for the Graduate Area Manager programme.  well as the business. This can have disadvantages for the business,  All recruits are assured of appropriate on-the-job and off-the-job  as it gives workers greater value in the job market. However, Aldi is  training, as well as career development opportunities. Promotion is  willing to take this risk as it believes in providing what is best for its  open to all staff, regardless of the route they choose to join Aldi.  staff. Development options for apprentices include working for various qualifications. Aldi has a fast-track approach for graduates.  Aldi puts great emphasis on developing its people. Over 85%  Opportunities for graduate recruits at Aldi include secondments to  of Aldi directors have been recruited from within the company.  different international countries to develop all-round expertise.  This commitment to training and development makes Aldi a business of choice for both ambitious teenagers and top  The Aldi retail placement scheme takes university students on a  graduates. This is shown by its placing in the Top 5 in The Times  one-year placement. This allows the chosen individuals to show  Top 100 Graduate Employers and the Graduate Employer of  what they can offer the business and to find out what the  Choice for 2012 for General Management.  business can offer them. Aldi offers an excellent reward package for students on a placement, but in return expects trainees to have enthusiasm, drive and ambition. Successful students get the opportunity to apply for a place on Aldi’s Area Management training programme. To support their development, managers help employees to set personal goals. These are identified during an appraisal process. This is when a member of staff sits down with their line manager to evaluate past and current performance, to consider what skills are needed going forward and to set targets for the future. This could involve identifying further training or development opportunities. 1. Describe what is meant by training. (2 marks) 2. Explain the difference between on-the-job and approaches are used by Aldi. (4 marks) 3. Analyse the similarities and differences between training and development. Which do you think is most important to Aldi and why? (6 marks) 4. Evaluate the different ways that Aldi attracts and trains new staff. Which of these do you think is the most  Exam-style questions  off-the-job training. Explain why you think both training  important route for Aldi? Give reasons for your answer. (8 marks)  Aldi | Business expansion through training and development  11  