ARM STUDY  2/10/12  14:04  Page 2  O P E R AT I O N S  How innovation drives research and development  In return for its technology, ARM receives a licence fee for the  Introduction  original IP from the partner and a royalty on every microchip Using a laptop computer, Smartphone or iPad has become an  produced. To date, over 20 billion chips containing ARM  essential part of everyday life for many people. Few, however, will  technology have been manufactured. ARM relies on the high levels  be aware of how the technology that drives these tools is created.  of creativity, innovation and knowledge of its people to continue to  ARM is the world's leading semiconductor intellectual property (IP)  develop new ideas and provide customers with the benefits of  supplier. Intellectual property is that which originates in the mind  emerging technology. Its R&D activity is collaborative and  such as ideas, literary works, music and designs. ARM’s business  generates innovation in other companies. For example, leading  model is not typical. It does not own any factories but instead  brand Smartphones contain ARM technology that has been  designs and licenses its technology to a network of partners who  incorporated into chips manufactured by a variety of  carry out the manufacturing. Over 900 licenses have been sold to  semiconductor companies. In turn, they use diverse software and  more than 250 different partner companies. These include the  applications running on various operating systems such as  world's leading semiconductor and systems companies, such as  Android. This sharing of information contributes to increasing the  Samsung, NVIDIA, Texas Instruments and Qualcomm.  industry’s knowledge base. This case study will look at the processes of research and  From its founding in 1990 in Cambridge in the UK, it has grown to  development at ARM and show how these support the company’s  become a major developer of digital electronic products. The  leading market position.  company has offices around the world, including design centres in the UK, USA, India, Scandinavia, France and China. ARM is a Research & Development (R&D) focused business. Its ‘products’ are intangible and cover a diverse range of applications. They are used in everything from sensors to servers. Mobile phones, tablet computers, washing machines, car braking systems and network routers all use ARM technology.  New product development (NPD) New products may stem from invention or innovations. Invention is the formulation of new ideas for products or processes. Innovation is the practical application of new inventions into marketable products or services. Product development may follow different routes: • A product-orientated approach is where a company develops a new product. It then seeks a market and ‘pushes’ the product out to that market. This might be to solve a problem or to take advantage of an opportunity. An example could be developing new functions for mobile phones. This is a higher risk approach as the company will carry the costs of development without knowing what the returns might be. • A market-orientated approach develops a product to meet a known current or future customer need. This need would have been identified through market research. Developing a product to specific requirements may reduce costs and increase the probability of product success. Having a market waiting to buy the product gives assurance of return on the investment.  12  Curriculum topics covered: • New product development • Innovation • Research • Development  