ARM STUDY  29/8/12  10:22  Page 3  • Responding to competitor products allows a business to catch up or overtake business rivals. This development may lead to a better product. • Changes in technology may lead to the development of a more effective product or one which sets a new benchmark for the market. For example, the Amazon Kindle is changing the way people read books. ARM adopts a route of innovation to transfer its technology into products customers want and need. Its technology supports three key types of chips:  A - class processors (applications)  Research These are equivalent to PC  The research process involves inquiry into and discovery of new  processors; these are ‘high end’  ideas to solve a problem or create an opportunity. ARM invests  and are used in everything from  around £140 million per year into its research programmes. As a  smartphones to servers and  knowledge-based research and development business, the majority  supercomputers where multi-  of costs are associated with the company’s high quality employees.  tasking is needed. ARM’s corporate R&D R - class processors are ‘real-time’  This looks 5-10 years into the  These are embedded in things  future for new ways to do  and do only one job, such as  things. It also considers future  the overall braking control on  products.  a car. M - class processors (micro controllers)  These are general purpose and  ARM’s advanced product  This is concerned with how to  development  apply new technology 3-5 years  programmable. They are used for  in the future.  a single less complex task or a larger process. These are used  ARM’s product development  This is focused on new products for launch in 1-2 years.  in, for example, washing machine programmes or on the ABS brakes on each wheel of a car.  ARM’s R&D is predominantly market-orientated. It is influenced by feedback from hundreds of customers – and their customers –  ARM’s product development also takes various external factors  from different industries and with different needs. ARM employs a  into account, for example, the need to develop low carbon  ‘Push/Pull’ model. The push is where ARM puts its latest  products, increase energy security and address impacts on global  developments out to manufacturers to drive new technical  warming. In addition, meeting global economic challenges is also  innovations. The pull reflects what customers and consumers are  high on ARM’s agenda. For example, developing countries such  asking for, i.e. market demand. ARM’s R&D team talks to people  as Brazil and China are becoming more affluent and buying more  at every level within key industries to establish what they need and  consumer electronics.  what demand there is for different products in order to ensure products are customer-orientated.  Other factors affecting ARM include the customer’s desire for greater computing mobility, lower power consumption and  External influences also affect ARM’s research. For example,  increased battery life. Consumers are also looking to ‘cloud’  energy efficiency is high on the public agenda. R&D into low  technology, for example, in mobile phone apps, to provide remote  power techniques has always been a key focus for ARM. The  access to virtual storage and software. This provides convenience  microprocessor market is now focused on evaluating the benefits  and lower cost. ARM’s main technical driver is power efficiency,  of similar products across competitors. For example, which has  making microchips smaller whilst increasing their performance. The  lowest power, highest performance (speed) and the smallest scale  smallest processors are now the size of human hair or crumbs.  (which is vital for mobile devices).  www.thetimes100.co.uk  13  