ARM STUDY  29/8/12  10:22  Page 5  www.arm.com  ARM’s approach to R&D delivers significant competitive advantage. Its unique, world-leading products and technology enhance the business’ reputation and ongoing research generates opportunities which keep its product pipeline strong. ARM’s business model enables the business to gain the potential to earn future income over many years from licensing its intellectual property.  Conclusion R&D supports invention and innovation. ARM, as a marketorientated business, relies on innovation to maintain its marketleading position in an industry focused on advancements in technology. Through the use of feedback, from both technical experts and customers, ARM ensures its product development ARM meets these challenges and reduces the potential risk of its projects by: • working with lead partners to understand what is technically possible • listening to what its customers and their customers are asking for • managing timescales by adjusting the team size and ensuring the right skills are in place in order to deliver on time. Challenges to R&D at ARM are mainly technical or economic. Moore’s Law describes the shrinking process of technology. Moore's  reflects market demands. Its partnership approach reduces risk whilst minimising the time it takes to get a product to market. ARM’s ongoing recruitment cycle helps ensure it has employees with the required specialist skills and competencies to maintain its position in the market. This is an ongoing challenge due to the complexity of the work. 95% of ARM’s workforce is made up of graduates, with around 70% of these being educated to Masters degree level or higher. Although entry levels are high, the innovative nature of the work offers a highly creative and rewarding environment.  Law is named after Intel co-founder Gordon E. Moore and predicts that the number of transistors on an integrated circuit (and therefore its performance and capability) will double approximately every two years. The law is used in the semiconductor industry to guide longterm planning and to set targets for research and development. However, it is not possible to shrink things forever and the smaller technology gets, the more complex microchips become. As technology becomes more complex, ARM requires more people to carry out the work. As chips get more complex, the skills required for the work are more intricate. This human element becomes a real challenge for ARM due to the specialist nature of the work teamed with a global skills shortage. It also brings challenges of communication between stakeholders because of the mix of geography, culture and time zones within which ARM operates.  1. Describe the difference between invention and innovation. (2 marks) especially for technology-driven organisations like ARM.  ongoing recruitment and offers internships each year to attract the  (4 marks)  best skills. It has employed around 400-500 people in the last year. ARM provides an exciting, collaborative and team-based environment. Training for new graduates involves rotation across  3. Analyse the challenges businesses face when undertaking large-scale research and development. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate how far its partnership approach to research and  several projects to develop skills rapidly. Although needing very  development gives ARM a competitive advantage.  high levels of skills to enter the business, once in the organisation,  (8 marks)  Exam-style questions  2. Explain the importance of new product development, ARM has a continual challenge in recruiting skilled people. It has  ARM people are highly employable. ARM | How innovation drives research and development  15  