BACK END OF BOOK  29/8/12  13:53  Page 5  Example teacher guide Training and development - Harrods  Where does the lesson fit?  3. Explain the terms ‘on-the-job’ and ‘off-the-job’ training, giving examples from Harrods.  This session would fit in a Human Resources module to introduce  On-the-job training takes place in the work place. At Harrods  the concepts of training and development. It could follow sessions  this can take the form of observing other colleagues. Off-the-  on recruitment and selection and may be followed by learning  job training occurs away from the workplace. The bite-size  about retention or motivation.  workshops offered by Harrods are examples of off-the-job training.  Suggested resources & activities 4. Analyse why training and development is so important for Related to Harrods and Training and Development.  organisations like Harrods.  • Full Harrods case study  Training and development is important for Harrods because:  • Training and Development PowerPoint  • It helps to meet business goals e.g. sales targets  • Staff Retention lesson resources  • It increases motivation  • Harrods crossword  • It helps Harrods to retain its staff  • Harrods word search  • It helps maintain its reputation for quality • It employs workers from many different backgrounds with  Suggested timings for the session 10 mins  Starter e.g. Harrods word search  5 mins  Use the Training and Development PowerPoint  differing skills and qualifications.  What have you learned?  to discuss the topic  Expected learning is likely to include:  5 mins  Read the case study  • Definitions of training and development  10 mins  Questions  • The meaning of on and off-the-job training and induction training  20 mins  Task – training report for different job roles  • Advantages and disadvantages of both on and off-the-job training  10 mins  What have you learned?  • The importance of training and development for organisations  Answers to questions 1. What is training? Training involves acquiring new skills and knowledge in relation to a current role. It is concerned with the present and the needs of the job role. 2. Describe how development differs from training. Development differs from training because it relates to a person’s potential to acquire wider capabilities. It is more concerned with the future and the needs of the employee.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  111  