CIMA STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 2  FINANCE  Decision making techniques  Introduction  CIMA, the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, is the world’s leading professional body of management accountants.  A business aims to generate value for its owners, customers and  CIMA-trained management accountants help to lead the process  other stakeholders. It must decide how to combine valuable  of strategy formation in a business. Strategy is the plan for  resources – typically buildings and equipment, materials, people  achieving objectives. However, strategy only points the way. Many  and knowledge – in such a way that the value of the output  decisions – large and small – must be made. Management is all  exceeds the costs of the input.  about decision making and management accountants play a vital role in providing the crucial evidence that helps managers to make  As resources flow into or out of a business, information flows too.  the right decisions.  Much of this information leaves a footprint in the form of financial data as the activities along a business’ value chain result in financial  Detecting, monitoring and evaluating risk is a very important  outcomes. These are reported in financial statements including the  element of this process. Management accountants use their  cash flow and income statements as well as the formal balance  accounting know-how to factor risk into decisions to help senior  sheet. Traditional accounting is concerned with reporting on a  managers make realistic plans. The effectiveness of this depends  business in financial terms about its past performance.  on good communication. Even the best information has little value if not received by the right staff in the right format at the right time.  Management accountants go beyond this to prepare both financial and non-financial information to support the business. They  Types of decisions  combine the relevant expertise of a traditional professionally qualified accountant with an understanding of the drivers of cost,  A business continually makes decisions at all levels. Think of a  risk and value in a business. This enables them to provide analysis  retailer such as Next. To keep the brand’s high profile position, its  and insights which are used to improve future performance.  managers have to make many decisions. Each major strategic decision leads to tactical decisions, which break down into operational decisions. Decisions are broadly taken at three levels: • Strategic decisions are big choices of identity and direction. Who are we? Where are we heading? These decisions are often complex and multi-dimensional. They may involve large sums of money, have a long-term impact and are usually taken by senior management. • Tactical decisions are about how to manage performance to achieve the strategy. What resources are needed? What is the timescale? These decisions are distinctive but within clearer boundaries. They may involve significant resources, have medium-term implications and may be taken by senior or middle managers.  16  Curriculum topics covered: • Types of decisions • Decision making • Decision trees • Ratio analysis  