CIMA STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 4  A decision tree is an outcome and probability map of the scenario.  Ratio analysis Businesses generate a huge amount of data. Management  Decision tree  accountants can use a number of the company’s key accounting statements to extract greater meaning from this information. The income statement sets out the total sales revenue and subtracts the costs of generating that revenue to give operating profit. This is the surplus earned by the normal operations of the company and tells us most about underlying business performance. To continue to use the earlier illustrative example, Prospect plc is expanding rapidly as it builds a commercial property portfolio £1.6m  consisting mainly of shops and offices. The company receives rents and also benefits from any profits when it sells property and sites. Prospect plc - Summarised income statement for year ending  There are three possible outcomes to this scenario, each of which  31 March 2012 (against previous year for comparison)  can be given a financial value. Outcome  Probability  Estimated value  Outcome 1 – the site  The development  A 75% chance of  is developed and the  value is £4m.  receiving £4m is  bypass is rejected.  However, there is  'worth' £4m X 0.75 =  only a 75% chance  £3m  Sales revenue  (less) Expenses (equals) Operating profit  £m 2012 £m 2011 120 80  105  15  From products/ services sold  60 E.g. costs, overheads  20  of this occurring. Outcome 2 – the site  There is a 25%  If the bypass goes  is developed and the  chance of receiving  ahead it is ‘worth’  bypass goes ahead.  only £2m  £2m x 0.25 = £0.5m  The balance sheet (or statement of financial position) shows the wealth of a company at a particular date. It lists the company's assets (what it owns) followed by its liabilities (what it owes) – the difference being the net assets. Assets may be current, such as  Outcome 3 – the site  Undeveloped, the  cash, or fixed, such as property or equipment. This value  is sold undeveloped.  site is worth £1.6m  represents the shareholders' equity – the value in the company that the shareholders actually own.  To calculate the possible yield of developing the site, the values of outcomes 1 and 2 are combined. The cost of development is then subtracted: £3m + £0.5m - £1.5m = £2m This compares to the value of selling the undeveloped site at only £1.6m. On this basis, depending on its attitude to risk and the likely timescales, the company is likely to build the shops and restaurant. Decision trees encourage managers to look at a range of options rather than relying on ‘gut feeling’. However, they are only as accurate as the data on which they are based. This data is usually based on estimates. They do also run the risk of over-simplifying a problem particularly where human or other external factors are involved. Other analysis tools can supplement the decisionmaking process. 18  www.thetimes100.co.uk  