CIMA STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 3  • Operational decisions are more routine and follow known rules. How many? To what specification? These decisions involve  Once a decision is made and implemented it needs careful monitoring to ensure it keeps on track and any problems are detected early.  more limited resources, have a shorter-term application and can be taken by middle or first line managers.  The Electricity Supply Board (ESB) in Ireland faced the challenge of reducing its costs from €250m to €200m over five years.  Imagine Next is planning to expand its product range. Its decisions  A team including management accountants was formed to break  would involve all three levels.  down costs and identify waste. The team discovered that ESB was carrying the costs of electrical faults caused by external building and construction companies. Meanwhile the ESB  Strategic decisions  technicians were over-burdened with paperwork. The team simplified and centralised this within a designated administration team. This meant the technical staff had more time to give a faster, flexible response to faults and to diagnose their causes.  Tactical decisions  Major savings followed as faults plummeted by 75% and costefficiency at the company’s call centre significantly improved. Some operational decisions can be made mainly from experience  Operational decisions  and based on an assessment of circumstances. More complex decisions need a systematic and structured approach. This is where decision-making models help.  All decisions depend on information. The key is to get the right  Decision trees  information to the right people at the right time. For example,  Most business problems may potentially have more than one  management accountants at Shell, the global oil and gas  solution. Each choice can lead to varying outcomes, some more  company, have been improving the way the company deals with  likely than others. To illustrate this, consider the decision faced by  the strategic and operational data about its global energy projects  Prospect plc, a (fictitious) property development business.  to improve strategic planning.  The company owns a town centre building site. This could be sold now for an estimated £1.6m. Alternatively the site could be  The company brought together data from 1,200 projects and  developed with shops and a restaurant at a cost of £1.5m.  opportunities across 40 countries into a single system. Bringing the  The property could then be sold for £4m - provided that a bypass  information together was a complex task due to the size of the  proposal is rejected by the local council. The odds of the bypass  company’s operations. However, the system has helped to define  being rejected are judged at about 75:25 due to environmental  strategies and provide greater insight and detail to the Executive  objections. If, however, the bypass were to be built, much tourist  Committee and Board. This has given greater clarity on the  trade would be lost and the value of the development would only be  business’ current and potential performance and highlighted where  £2m. Which choice should Prospect plc make? A decision tree is a  the company should allocate resources. To date, the system has  useful tool when analysing choices of this kind.  helped Shell to increase net present value by over 15%.  How are decisions made? Management accountants use their skills alongside hard information to support decision making. Through intelligent analysis of information, they can generate alternative solutions and match these to the larger strategy. Each alternative can then be evaluated for its contribution towards objectives, taking into account: • the timescale: money received in the future being worth less than money received today • the risk: factoring in the probability of under- or overperformance (also called negative or positive variance). www.thetimes100.co.uk  17  