CMI STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 5  www.managers.org.uk  Removing resistance is a vital role for managers. To minimise  One method of evaluating the process of change is through key  resistance an effective manager will communicate clear objectives.  performance indicators (KPIs). These monitor how well parts of an  This will help everybody to get involved in the process and enable  organisation are working towards fulfilling business objectives. For  them to understand why change is necessary. Communication  example, if an objective was to increase productivity, output can  also helps to avoid rumours. Change can be a sensitive process.  be measured and then compared to output data from before the  Employees need to feel that they have sufficient resources to carry  change programme. This helps to establish if it has increased.  out any changes. Some staff may need retraining. Involving employees at each stage helps to create support for the  Evaluating the outcomes helps to keep the process of change  change process.  moving forward. For example, if the original strategy needs to be revised, it allows managers to make decisions that enable future  Working within a culture of change can have a positive effect on  processes of change to be more effective.  an organisation. For example, it may support the process of Total Quality Management (TQM). It also encourages employees to look  The changes that took place at HMP & YOI Doncaster were  forward to the process of change as the benefits have been  striking. After the CMI training and development, staff morale  made clear.  and managers’ confidence grew. They started to think more strategically about how to overcome challenges. First-line  There were a number of barriers to change within HMP & YOI  manager turnover fell significantly. This was because the issues  Doncaster. These included low staff morale, a high turnover of  identified in inspection reports had been tackled. Managers were  front line managers and a limited budget to support the process of  able to approach challenges in a completely different way. They  change. CMI training helped the managers at the centre to  developed a better understanding of leadership and management,  overcome these barriers. CMI qualifications encouraged managers  and of their own strengths and development needs as leaders.  to put their ideas into practice to make a positive difference to the  The programme helped to reduce costs and retain talent.  centre’s performance.  Ultimately, it enabled individuals to contribute effectively to the setting and fulfilling of the organisation’s objectives.  Conclusion Organisational change takes place for a number of reasons. Often this is because of changes in the internal and external environment. Organisations implement changes to increase the effectiveness of the business. Change can be a complex process and there may be barriers to overcome. This is why implementing change programmes within an organisation requires effective managers. CMI training and development ensures that managers have the skills and competencies required to manage their team through a process of change. It enables them to deal with the change process and to monitor and evaluate change. This helps to reduce possible resistance to change and establish if the change objectives were achieved.  Evaluating the management of change results of the change programme. This involves relating the changes to the original strategy and objectives. If changes are not evaluated it will be difficult for managers to determine how well they managed the process. Monitoring and review will also help them to understand where further improvements may be required. If, for some reason, the change process has not been successful,  that might cause change in the business environment. (2 marks) 2. Explain two benefits of having well trained managers when managing change. (4 marks) 3. Using an example, analyse why individual employees might resist the process of change. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate why an organisation might want to create a  Exam-style questions  As change takes place, it is important to monitor and evaluate the  1. Describe one internal factor and one external factor  culture of change. (8 marks)  managers can evaluate why the change process has failed.  CMI | Developing the skills for managing change  23  