CMI STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 3  Every change strategy will involve setting objectives. It is important, therefore, to constantly evaluate change programmes. By doing this it is possible to monitor whether changes have helped an organisation to improve the way it meets its business objectives. Serco is one of the world’s leading service and outsourcing companies. It employs more than 70,000 people and helps governments to improve services. In 1994 Serco took over management of HMP and YOI Doncaster, a category ‘B’ remand centre in South Yorkshire. The prison had faced many challenges in recent years. For example, the prison inspection report identified a number of areas where improvements could be made. The  What causes change in a business?  report rated the prison at Performance Level 2, where Level 4 is the highest and Level 1 the lowest. Staff morale was low, with a  Every organisation faces challenges from within the business. For  high turnover of first-line managers. To address these issues  example, the internal environment might be affected by  Serco decided to use CMI’s programme of management training  inefficiency, changes in the workforce or high levels of staff  and qualifications. CMI training provides managers with the  absenteeism. Organisations also face many challenges in their  knowledge and skills required to implement changes to improve  external environment. These might include legislation that sets  the centre’s performance.  new standards, advances in technology or changes in the market or the economy.  Managing change  To meet these challenges, managers must anticipate and plan for  Change is inevitable and needs to be handled effectively. To  effective improvements to the organisation’s processes. On the  remain competitive organisations need to continually look for more  one hand, this may involve change management. This requires  efficient and effective ways to operate. Change management is  leaders who have the tools or structures that keep any change  therefore high on the agenda for many organisations.  effort under control. The goal with change management is to minimise the impacts of the change. On the other hand, this may  Managing change involves a transition from A to B. As this takes  involve change leadership. This involves supporting the change  place, managers need to handle the challenges that may come up  process. Leaders need to have the vision to change an  during the process. At the forefront of this is the setting of change  organisation. To do this they need to harness the driving forces of  objectives. They then have to work out the best way to achieve  change in order to transform an organisation.  these objectives.  Change Management  Change Management  Change Leadership  A Keeping changes under control  Supporting change to transform the business  B Handling all problems during the process  Every organisation is a complicated system so managing change Change affects the decisions that an organisation must make in a  is not necessarily an easy process. For example, there will be a  variety of ways. Human resource planning is an important aspect  number of different interdependent parts affecting the whole  of the change management process. This helps to ensure that the  organisation. Changes in technology could have an impact on  workforce can meet the required changes. For example, this might  working procedures, the structure of the organisation and its  involve retraining to develop new skills to meet the changing  people. As leaders manage change, they have to manage the  needs of consumers. Alternatively, a business might have to invest  different inter-related parts of the organisation. The ability to  in new production methods designed to improve efficiency.  manage these parts well is therefore a vital skill for managers.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  21  