CMI STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 4  As planning takes place a time frame should be drawn up. Good communication ensures transparency when implementing changes. This can help motivate employees as they feel included in the process. Controlling the process is important as it helps to reduce conflict. Reviewing the process ensures that change objectives are being achieved. CMI qualifications provide managers with the skills and competencies required to plan, implement, control and review the change process. For example, at HMP & YOI Doncaster, having identified areas of weakness within the prison, it was important that managers could identify solutions that could bring about change to create improvements. Training by CMI helped managers Managing change involves making decisions at different levels.  to respond to issues in an imaginative and flexible way. It also  These include:  provided managers with the opportunity to take qualifications that  • Strategic decisions - major decisions affecting the whole of an  would improve their career development.  organisation. • Tactical decisions - at departmental level to work towards achieving change objectives. The way in which decisions are communicated and carried out varies depending on the style of leadership or the culture of the organisation. There are four main methods: • ‘Total imposed package’ which comes from the top, covering the whole organisation and is implemented in one go. • ‘Imposed piecemeal initiative’ where change is imposed but in stages. • ‘Negotiated total package’ where the aim is to seek a package of change via negotiations with the staff. • ‘Negotiated piecemeal package’ where there is a gradual implementation of change through a series of negotiations with the workforce.  Barriers to change Communication plays a key role in the process of change. Managers and leaders need to identify effective communication  There can often be barriers to change. These can include:  channels through which to reach the appropriate stakeholders. This  • the culture of an organisation resisting the power structure  must happen at every stage in the change process. Employees  • managers feeling threatened by the process of change  need to understand the reasons for change. They may want to ask  • resistance from employees  questions to clarify how they can support the process of change.  • a lack of understanding about why change is to take place • a lack of communication or trust • employees fearing the unknown.  Planning  Effective managers take barriers to change into account. They do this during the planning stage of the change programme. For Review  Implementation  example, the culture of an organisation can be a barrier to change. The culture is the way in which employees work through custom and practice, reflecting the norms of an organisation. This  Control  can makes employees rigid in their approach to their work which could create resistance to change if not managed effectively.  22  www.thetimes100.co.uk  