ENTERPRISE-RENT-A-CAR STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 5  www.enterprise.co.uk  As a result, Enterprise’s activities are polycentric. This means that  and expensive, many customers swapped large cars for  some services are only offered in certain markets. For example,  smaller and more economical vehicles. This led to a collapse of  Rent-A-Car is operated in all markets globally. WeCar is operated  sales in the used car market. Enterprise relied on that market to  in the UK and the USA and Flex-E-Rent is only available in the UK.  sell on its vehicles. The future of the business was not certain and so Enterprise diversified to buy Keefe. It was hoped that  Diversification  acquiring small, underdeveloped businesses would generate more opportunities for Enterprise.  Diversification strategies involve widening an organisation’s scope  c) In 1977 Enterprise invested in Mexican Inn Chili Products.  across different products and market sectors. It is associated with  However, the company had little experience of both the  higher risks as it requires an organisation to take on new  packaged goods industry and the packaged food business.  experience and knowledge outside its existing markets and  Poor sales and a guaranteed buy-back arrangement with  products. The organisation may come across issues that it has  retailers (where unsold goods could be returned) meant that the  never faced before. It may need additional investment or skills.  business did not make a profit. Therefore the company sold the business but learned a lot from the experience. This last example illustrates the risk that diversification poses. Just because a business is successful, like Enterprise, it can never guarantee success in every venture it undertakes. However, the experience with Mexican Inn did not put Enterprise off later acquisitions that were outside the car rental business, for example, TRG Group which is a leading manufacturer of luggage, backpacks and travel accessories.  Conclusion A marketing strategy is something that constantly evolves, adapting to changing market conditions. Within Enterprise, the outcomes from its many different types of business are constantly reviewed and evaluated. Judgements are then fed into the decision-making process. This enables new strategies to be On the other hand, however, it provides the opportunity to explore  developed to improve operations.  new avenues of business. This can spread the risk allowing the organisation to move into new and potentially profitable areas  However, while strategies change, one aspect of the business has  of operation.  remained in place. This is a continued focus on high levels of customer service and employee relations. This strategy has  Enterprise’s values help to define what the organisation stands for.  enabled Enterprise to enjoy continued growth for more than  They also identify its capability and competences. Its core values  55 years and the prospect of further growth in the future.  of ‘brand, honesty, service, fun, hard work, listening, inclusion and community’ are transferable. This means that the skills from the main business can be applied to other business opportunities  1. What is a marketing strategy? (2 marks)  through diversification, potentially reducing the risks associated  2. Explain how the diversification strategy within the Ansoff matrix differs from the other three strategies.  strategies include:  (4 marks) 3. Show with examples how research into product  a) Car Sales was established by Enterprise in 1962. This business involves selling used cars to both the public and businesses. It is now one of the largest sellers of used cars in the USA. b) In 1974 Enterprise purchased Keefe Coffee Company, which later developed as the Centric Group. The 1973 energy crisis  development at a local level helps organisations to respond to the needs of its local environment. (6 marks)  Exam-style questions  with this strategy. Examples of Enterprise’s diversification  4. Evaluate why some diversification decisions might be higher risk than others. (8 marks)  had created uncertainty for Enterprise. As fuel became scarce  Enterprise Rent-A-Car | Marketing and product strategies for growth  27  