ENTERPRISE-RENT-A-CAR STUDY  2/10/12  14:06  Page 3  This matrix suggests four alternative marketing strategies: a) Market penetration - involves selling more established products into existing markets, often by increased promotion or price reductions or better routes to market, for example online. b) Product development - involves developing new products or services and placing them into existing markets. c) Market development - entails taking existing products or services and selling them in new markets. d) Diversification - involves developing new products and putting them into new markets at the same time. Diversification is considered the most risky strategy. This is because the business is expanding into areas outside its core activities and There are many types of marketing objectives. For example, these might include: • increasing market share  experience as well as targeting a new audience. It also has to bear the costs of new product development. Enterprise has focused most of its growth strategies on market  • growing sales/turnover  development, product development and diversification. These are  • enhancing the strength of the brand  highlighted in the following sections.  • creating loyal customers • managing costs effectively, thus increasing profitability. A common marketing objective is to achieve growth. There are a number of ways in which organisations can grow. For example, they might expand internally. This is known as organic growth. A quicker but higher risk option is external or inorganic growth. This involves acquiring or merging with another business. One positive benefit of growth is that it helps a business to reduce costs through economies of scale. These include: • efficiencies arising from use of new technologies • improved buying power as it can bulk buy at lower costs • the ability to recruit more specialists to improve decision making. By lowering costs, an organisation increases its profitability and  Market development  becomes more competitive. One way of analysing the various strategies that an organisation may use to grow the business is with Igor Ansoff’s (1965) matrix. This considers the opportunities of offering existing and new products within existing and/or new markets and the levels of risk associated with each.  In 1957 Jack Taylor was a 35 year-old sales manager interested in the unheard-of practice of leasing cars. This was then a new and affordable alternative to running a car. Jack Taylor’s background in the US Navy made him realise the importance of taking care of those around you. His motto was, ‘Take care of your customers and employees, and the profits will follow’. Customer service and good employee relations therefore became  Increasing risk  Existing markets New markets  Existing products  New products  Market penetration Product development Market development  Diversification  Increasing risk  Product Market  the cornerstone of the business. It was this that helped the business to grow. From 1957 – 1993 Enterprise concentrated on expanding its operations across the USA. In this time it opened over 1,000 rental branches. Throughout the 90s Enterprise developed into markets in Canada, the UK, Germany and Ireland.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  25  