ENTERPRISE-RENT-A-CAR STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 2  MARKETING  Marketing and product strategies for growth  Enterprise’s ability to keep the customer at the centre of  Introduction  everything it does depends on the skills and commitment of its As an organisation develops a strategy, it is not making short-term  employees. The main focus for Enterprise is to find new ways to  decisions. Instead, it is creating a pathway that leads to a long term  provide real solutions for people and businesses with  goal. Strategic managers have to make many decisions. For example,  transportation problems. A focus on customer service is the  they have to differentiate their activities from their competitors. This  driving force behind the business. For example, customers benefit  means making their products and services distinctive and different  from a local pick-up service to take them to the branch to collect  from those of rivals, creating a unique selling point (USP) that, in turn,  their car. It is this level of customer service that makes Enterprise  strengthens its brand. They also have to consider the scope of their  different from its competitors.  activities. For example, should they simply operate in one market or should they enter a range of different markets? If they do enter  Ansoff’s matrix  different markets, how should they enter them? According to the Chartered Institute of Marketing, ‘Marketing is This case study illustrates how Enterprise Rent-A-Car has expanded its operations beyond its core business of car hire. The case study uses Ansoff’s matrix to illustrate how it has developed its strategies to improve and grow the business, creating new products and extending its services into new markets.  the management process responsible for identifying, anticipating and satisfying consumer requirements profitably’. To do this, organisations require a marketing strategy. A marketing strategy is something that affects every part of an organisation. It is about using everything that a business does to create value for others. This includes customers but it also benefits employees and  More than 55 years ago, in 1957, Enterprise was founded by Jack Taylor, an entrepreneur, in Missouri, USA. Starting with just seven cars he invested his money and ideas into Executive Leasing,  shareholders. The main purpose of a marketing strategy is to set out the means by which agreed marketing objectives are to be achieved.  which later became Enterprise. Since then the company has become the largest car rental company in North America, and arguably the world, with annual revenues of $14.1 billion and 68,000 employees in 2011. Enterprise Rent-A-Car is an internationally recognised brand, operating within the United States, Canada, the UK, Ireland and Germany. It currently has more than 7,000 rental offices in five countries. However, as the company has developed it has maintained the approach and feel of a smaller business. In fact, Enterprise is still a privately-owned business, with three generations of the Taylor family involved in managing the organisation. Even though Enterprise is a big company, it is run like a small business. Its branches are decentralised. This means that local managers have the freedom to make decisions based on the needs of each location.  24  Curriculum topics covered: • Ansoff’s matrix • Market development • Product development • Diversification  