ENTERPRISE-RENT-A-CAR STUDY  29/8/12  10:25  Page 4  world are committed to reducing global warming through more ecofriendly technologies, while consumers are looking for different mobility solutions. Enterprise therefore created WeCar, a membership carsharing programme which offers customers a car at an affordable hourly rate. It typically uses fuel-efficient vehicles or hybrids to help address concerns about the environment. Car sharing or hourly car rental can also help to reduce the number of cars on the road. In this way, WeCar members help to contribute to a cleaner environment. Having the ability to respond quickly to the external environment with new products and services is a benefit of being a privatelyowned business. Enterprise allows employees to make decisions at a local level and has created an entrepreneurial spirit within the organisation. This means that strategies are constantly reviewed to ensure that Enterprise remains the market leader. New avenues of In the car rental business, as all organisations are providing a  business are explored and researched. Underlying all of these  similar product, a key factor that differentiates one organisation  changes are Enterprise’s founding values. These are Enterprise’s  from another is the quality of the service that is provided for  driving forces behind growth and include values such as:  customers. Enterprise’s dramatic growth strategy has been made  • ‘Our brand is the most valuable thing we own.  possible through its high level of customer service. By listening to  • Great things happen when we listen...to our customers and to  its customers, it is able to provide greater satisfaction, with employees being a vital part of that process.  each other. • Customer service is our way of life.’  To provide superior customer service, Enterprise locates its branches as close as possible to its customers. The convenience of this service gives Enterprise a competitive advantage over its rivals. However, in response to customer needs, Enterprise opened its first on-airport location in 1995. The demand for this service was so great that by 2005 Enterprise had over 200 on-airport branches. This meant that Enterprise kept ahead of its competitors and increased its market share.  Product development Product development strategies have helped Enterprise to develop services in a market where it was already an established and profitable business. This was considered to be a medium risk strategy. Examples of Enterprise’s product development include its unique ‘Pick-up’ service. This helped to lead the market in this product offering. Enterprise’s Flex-E-Rent service (a long term vehicle rental solution designed to meet the growing needs of today’s businesses) and its Business Rental Programme (offering customers a bespoke programme with special pricing) are examples of product developments. These have widened its service range to improve the customer experience and strengthened its brand identity. Factors in the external environment affect decisions about product development. These are things taking place outside the business that influence decisions within the organisation. Governments around the 26  www.thetimes100.co.uk  