HARRODS V3 AW  29/8/12  10:26  Page 4  Harrods offers other programmes:  Harrods also has systems to improve employee communications  • The Business Academy which supports managers as they  so that it can listen to feedback and address any issues. There is  progress into more senior positions. • The Oxford Summer School which is a challenging academic  an Internal Communications department, regular performance assessment meetings and SMART targets for employees to reach.  learning opportunity held at Keble College, Oxford. This is  These initiatives have seen employee turnover fall from 51.4% in  designed to highlight some of the problems, decisions and  2006 to 25% in November 2011.  challenges of running a retail business. 10 prized places are awarded to high potential managers. • The Buying Academy which develops Assistant Buyers into Buyers of the future.  Careers at Harrods Harrods ensures there is a clear career path for any employee, from any background. Three key levels in Harrods are the sales employee, department managers and senior managers. At each level, employees can benefit from Harrods development programmes in order to build a career. James is a Sales Associate and one of Harrods first Sales Degree students. When an injury prevented him from following his previously chosen career in contemporary dance, he applied to Harrods. He has never looked back. Harrods training has given him transferable skills. He has been able to work within more than one department, providing the same high levels of customer experience.  ‘The course is absolutely fantastic. I feel very privileged to be on it. It is very much focused on work-based learning. It provides real insight into consumer psychology and behaviour - why people do what they do and how they  Retaining talent  shop - and how to deal with challenging situations. My managers are very supportive. If I need to take some time  Employee retention is important for businesses. A low employee  out during the day to make notes on an interesting  turnover can keep recruitment costs down. It also ensures a skilled  situation, then I can. It has offered some amazing  and experienced workforce. Employee development is beneficial for  opportunities, such as giving me behind-the-scenes  both the employee and the business. However, sometimes  information on how Harrods works and increasing my  employees think that their new-found skills will enable them to gain  awareness of its global influence. I have realised that  a better job elsewhere. Harrods, therefore, has put in place  Harrods offers great benefits, good conditions and an  strategies to keep its talented Retail Managers. It has found that  opportunity to work amongst fantastic people.’  James  employees who develop within the company tend to stay. Those brought in from outside are more likely to leave. Another vital part of retention for Harrods involves identifying the ‘DNA’ (key factors) of  James will complete his BA Honours in 2012. He believes that the  great sales people. It then matches applicants to these factors.  qualification will provide the additional skills he needs before he steps up to the next level at Harrods. James now expects his  To reduce employee turnover Harrods has developed a better  future to be with Harrods.  management structure, improved benefits and created initiatives which make Harrods a ‘great place to work’. Harrods has put in  Amber’s application was successful because of the customer skills  place a system of rewards and incentives:  she was able to bring from previous experiences. She is now the  • An excellent package of employee benefits including good pay,  Retail Manager of Childrenswear. Her responsibilities range from  employee discounts and a good working environment.  overseeing budgets to managing both stock and people, as well  • Commission and sales bonuses for individuals and teams.  as upholding the Harrods standards of service. By taking  • Improved work schedules which help to give a better  advantage of the Harrods Management Programme, Amber has  work-life balance. 30  risen to a better paid and more responsible job. www.thetimes100.co.uk  