HARRODS V3 AW  2/10/12  14:07  Page 2  PEOPLE  Developing a career path in retail  Introduction  Training is about gaining the skills needed for a job. These may be learned at the place of work (on-the-job) or away from work  ‘Harrods of London’ is a British institution. It is probably the most  (off-the-job). On-the-job training tends to be more cost-effective  well-known and respected retail store in the world. For 162 years,  and relevant. However, off-the-job training is usually carried out by  Harrods has built its unique reputation supported by its key brand  professional trainers. It also occurs away from the distractions of  values – British; Luxury; Innovation; Sensation; Service. Harrods  work. Training tends to have very specific and measurable goals,  employs approximately 5,000 people from 86 different nationalities  such as operating an IT system or till, understanding a process, or  who deal with up to 100,000 customers a day at peak times.  performing certain procedures (for example, cashing up).  Harrods needs employees who can face the challenges that its  Development is more about the individual – making him or her  reputation and standards bring. It needs people who are looking  more efficient at a job or capable of facing different responsibilities  for an exciting and rewarding long-term career with responsibility  and challenges. Development concentrates on the broader skills  and prospects. Its challenge is to find (and retain) employees with  that are applicable to a wider variety of situations, such as thinking  the right mix of skills and abilities, who can be developed to  creatively, decision-making and managing people. In short, training  become the managers of the future.  is typically linked to a particular subject matter and is applicable to that subject only, while development is based on growing broader  To achieve this, Harrods has to counter some of the negative  skills which can be used in many situations.  perceptions about working in retail. Working in a shop has traditionally been seen as low-skilled – with long hours, poor pay and little chance of promotion. However, because quality is key at Harrods, employees are well-paid, respected and have clear career paths open to them. Senior managers at Harrods have come from all walks of life and started out with various levels of qualifications. All have benefited from development opportunities provided by the company.  The importance of training and development Training and development is vital to any business. Its purpose at Harrods is to better the performance of employees to enable  Harrods employees come from diverse backgrounds and different nationalities. They have differing levels of competency, education and experience. Harrods offers comprehensive Learning and Development opportunities. These opportunities are offered at a variety of levels to suit the needs of all Harrods employees. These range from workshops for Sales Associates and Warehouse Operatives to developmental programmes for senior managers. Amber is a Harrods Retail Manager who started as a Sales Associate at Harrods through an online application. Harrods has created a web site www.harrodscareers.com to enable candidates to apply for roles easily.  Harrods to meet its business goals. For example, at Harrods the Sales Academy develops employees’ sales skills, leading to  ‘I wasn’t sure I would get the job but it seemed a really  increased sales when they return to the shop floor. Allowing  challenging role and I was keen to try. I had only a little  employees to acquire new skills, expertise and qualifications  background in retail and none at all in the luxury retail market.  supports employee progression which leads to increased  Mostly I had been working in the hospitality sector.’  motivation. This supports Harrods’ retention strategies. 28  Curriculum topics covered: • Training • Development • Retention • Roles and responsibilities  Amber  