HARRODS V3 AW  2/10/12  14:07  Page 3  However, Harrods Learning and Development ensured Amber acquired the skills she needed to carry out her role. Development at Harrods is linked to the company’s Business Competencies which fall under four headings: Working at Harrods, Your Impact on Others, Making Things Happen, Focus on Improvements. Each Business Competency is supported by workshops so that every skill can be improved. Learning is offered off-the-job in ‘bite-size’ sessions. These sessions give employees the chance to learn more effectively over a much shorter period, reducing time away from work and bringing a tightly focused approach to skills development. They have been described as concise and punchy and a workshop typically lasts 90 minutes. All the Business Competencies are supported by self-help guides which are run either on-or off-the-job and include activities such as observation and review, reading, and ‘one minute guides’ offering top tips and tactics.  The sales and service programmes include the ‘Harrods Welcome’. This induction provides essential training for new employees, such as Harrods’ brand values and The Theatre of Selling. Other courses ensure the effectiveness of Harrods sales associates: • ‘Your Theatre’ is a two-day programme to improve sales skills and provide the highest level of customer service. It introduces the idea of selling as a ‘theatre’ requiring specific skills and expertise. ‘The Theatre of Selling’ element covers personal presentation, effective questioning, product selection and closing the sale. ‘The Science of Selling’ develops employee awareness of customer types and needs. • The Harrods Fashion Programme is run in partnership with the London College of Fashion. It enables sales associates to understand the entire ‘product journey’ from design to sale. • The School of Communication offers voice, body language and presentation skills workshops. For suitable candidates, the Harrods Sales Degree provides the high level sales skills the company needs. This is the first and only degree of its kind in Sales. It is recognised globally and can be completed in two years.  Identifying key competencies also helps Harrods to design its recruitment process to ensure that it attracts the best candidates.  High Potential programmes are concerned with succession  They must have the right approach to sales, customer service and  planning. They are aimed at ensuring there is a strong pipeline of  decision-making and support the ‘theatre of retail’ that underpins  potential senior managers. The Harrods Management Programme  Harrods’ reputation. This is about flair, showmanship and  develops ambitious and career-focused employees into a  expertise. Harrods Learning and Development department must  management role. Jessica joined the company after graduating with  be proactive in responding to changing customer needs. For  a degree in Art History. After just three years she is now a Harrods  example, Harrods has introduced cultural awareness training for  Retail Manager. She runs the Designer Collection sales floor,  employees better to serve the increasing number of customers  managing 26 employees and controlling a substantial budget.  from the Middle East, China, Brazil and Russia.  Developing a career path  ‘My quick progression to Retail Manager was helped by  Harrods stands out from its competitors by providing a wide variety  own development to a large extent. Harrods supports you  of development opportunities for all employees. This means the  if you are keen to get on. The Harrods Management  business can recruit and retain good managers and maintain  Programme gave me eight months of training, both in-  improvements in sales and business performance. Individuals’  house and external. This, together with the support of my  self-esteem and motivation is raised. Once a year, managers talk to  mentor, has equipped me with the specific skills I need to  employees about their progress and ambitions during appraisals.  carry out my job effectively.’  the fact that Harrods allows people to take control of their  Jessica  Employees then identify their personal development targets. www.thetimes100.co.uk  29  