IET STUDY  2/10/12  14:08  Page 5  www.theiet.org  He had a keen interest in electronics and the entrepreneur in him  IET to make young people aware of the careers available to them  enjoyed hunting out and fixing old TVs and radios which he sold  in the engineering sector. They also help to get students  through his local newspaper.  participating in activities that will get them excited about technology and give them some of the practical experience valued by  After finishing school Matt became unemployed. His dad convinced  universities and employers, for example, FIRST LEGO League,  him to use his interest in electronics to take an apprenticeship in  F1 and 4x4 In Schools, Greenpower and Young Engineers Clubs.  electrical engineering. At the same time Matt set up the small company that was to become Crosby Communications PLC. ‘From no money, no prospects and unemployed, I transformed my life with Crosby Communications PLC. I ‘I started the business whilst doing an apprenticeship, doing  am proud because I’ve taken it from being a company  odd jobs such as fitting telephone systems into offices. During  worth £1 when I started, to now being worth millions in  the day I went to college to learn theory. This was coupled  terms of company valuation. This pride comes from  with placements in companies where I learned how to install  putting the time in and seeing that all the stress and hassle  electrical systems. I didn’t start trading officially until I was 18,  was worth it in the end. I am the first to be doing telecoms  building the business up on a part-time basis.’  in the cloud – which uses my joint skills of engineering and  Matt  the commercial experience/application.’  Matt  The toughest challenge Matt faced was getting the finance he needed to get the business off the ground. He continued with his  Conclusion  DJ work to save money to fund the new company. Once he had raised the cash he needed, Matt was able to concentrate on the  Engineers have been at the heart of the British economy and  voice, data and video business of Crosby Communication. He  industry for a long time. Matt Wilson is part of a long line of British  continued to grow the business, branching into other areas to  engineers going back to Brunel and more recently James Dyson.  spread the risks. Once established, Matt turned his attention towards self-development, seeking to get himself and the  There are many different types of engineers ranging from mechanical and electrical engineers to software designers,  company recognised for the technical abilities that he and it possessed. To gain this recognition he joined the IET and in the summer of 2010 Matt achieved IET Fellow status.  bio-technology engineers and those working with nano-technology (on a minute scale). These engineers form communities through professional organisations such as the IET in order to share good ideas. The IET also gives professional accreditation and status to the work of engineers. Engineers like Brunel, Dyson and Matt  ‘I joined IET in 2007 because I wanted to be part of an important institution that is not solely academic. The IET is made up of engineers, real people with hands-on experience in engineering. Becoming a Fellow helped me to further my career and become involved in committees whose policies affect the engineering industry. This commands a lot of respect. My customers also recognise the quality of my work because I have achieved Fellow status.’  Wilson are not just ideas people - they are entrepreneurs, having set up their own companies to put their ideas into the market. This involved taking risks but the rewards are high. These rewards are not just financial, but perhaps more importantly, are concerned with the freedom to take pride in one’s own work and shape the future. For more information on the IET please visit www.theiet.org.  Matt 1. What are the benefits that people like James Dyson and Matt Wilson have gained from becoming  committees and mentoring a number of new engineers in his area. He is an IET Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) Ambassador, going to schools to get children interested in STEM subjects. There is a huge demand from business of all sizes, across the UK and overseas, for people with good maths and  entrepreneurial engineers? (2 marks) 2. Describe the main characteristics of a successful entrepreneur. (4 marks) 3. Using the case study, analyse the problems entrepreneurs have to overcome to bring a product to market. (6 marks) 4. To what extent does success as an entrepreneur  science qualifications and the practical ability to apply those skills  depend solely upon the characteristics and qualities of  as professional engineers and technicians. Many of the IET’s  that person? (8 marks)  Exam-style questions  Matt is now an active member of the IET, working on local  members are involved with programmes led or supported by the  IET | Entrepreneurship in engineering  35  