IET STUDY  29/8/12  10:27  Page 4  • Analytical abilities – capable of researching and evaluating each  Step 2: Market research in order to find out information such as  aspect of the business, from development, through finance,  whether potential customers like the product or service, how they  production, to marketing and sales.  would use it, how often they would use it and how much they  • The ability to make decisions and to take (considered) risks.  would be willing to pay. For example, in creating the hybrid car, the  • A focus on results that ensures products are sold for a profit.  developers needed to check that customers would be prepared to pay for the extra engineering that went into the new designs.  The combination of many of these skills and qualities, with the right support, ensures ideas do not just remain as dreams but  Step 3: Identifying the target audience and the characteristics of  become real, viable businesses.  the typical customer for the new product. This allows the business to create the right sort of advertising and promotion to reach  Starting up a business  them. For example, competitive long distance runners make up a distinct segment of customers for SatNav directed watches as  There are a number of legal requirements that must be met to  they show distance travelled.  form a business. A new business will adopt one of a number of possible structures. Many very small start-up businesses are in the  Step 4: Identifying suitable sources of finance. These may come  form of a sole trader (one owner) or partnership (two or more  from personal funds, bank loans or special grants from trust funds  owners). These forms of business give the owner/s more freedom  for new enterprises such as the Prince’s Trust and Shell Livewire.  to make decisions themselves and to keep the profits their hard work has earned.  Finally, all start-up businesses need a well worked business plan. The plan should set out the objectives of the business, sales  A business can also take the form of a limited company. A limited  targets, marketing details, the main costs and the resources  company is owned by shareholders who share the profits the  needed, including equipment, accommodation and people. The  business makes. The company is run by directors. However,  plan can be used to demonstrate to a potential lender or investor  limited companies tend to be more expensive to run and  that the business idea is well thought out and likely to generate a  administer than sole traders or partnerships. They need to be  return on investment.  registered with the Registrar of Companies and have to produce complicated paperwork.  A young entrepreneur’s story  Starting up a business involves a number of steps:  Matt Wilson is an engineer, an entrepreneur and regards himself  Step 1: Generating good business ideas. These might be, for  as a pioneer in cloud-based communications. His tale is one of  example, based on the skills of the owners, or by spotting a gap  rags to riches. At sixteen years old he had no job and £100 in his  in the market or extending an existing idea.  pocket. Today at 34, he is a chartered engineer, an IET Fellow and Chief Executive of his own highly successful business: Crosby Communications PLC. Matt started a disco agency at the age of twelve. He funded it by washing cars in his neighbourhood. It was a real success and at fifteen he was interviewed on local BBC radio as a ‘budding entrepreneur that would go places’.  34  www.thetimes100.co.uk  