IET STUDY  2/10/12  14:08  Page 3  Why people become entrepreneurs  Nature of reward Description  An entrepreneur is someone who is prepared to sacrifice their own  Personal satisfaction  The opportunity to do something different. To choose your own career path.  Financial  The opportunity to reap a profit from your hard work and enterprise.  Independence  The opportunity to make your own decisions. As an owner you can set your own targets and standards.  Self-fulfilment  Being able to use your own skills and abilities. What you enjoy becomes your career.  time, effort and money to turn a good idea into a marketable product. For example, Charles Rolls and Frederick Royce were motor engineers. They showed enterprise by setting up the Rolls-Royce car manufacturing company. James Dyson is an example of a modern engineer entrepreneur. He invented the ball wheelbarrow and the Dyson Dual Cyclone Vacuum cleaner. His Dual Cyclone idea involves filtering dust in a funnel of air that spins at up to one thousand miles per hour with 100% efficiency. Dyson’s enterprise has created a global brand, employing workers in many countries and selling across the world.  Characteristics of an entrepreneur There is no such thing as a typical entrepreneur. Some Entrepreneur - risk taker, setting up and running his own business  James Dyson  Engineer - applies new technologies to develop new advanced products  entrepreneurs are quiet and hard-working, while others are more outgoing and flamboyant. The key to being a successful entrepreneur lies in the ability to take an idea and then, through the process of innovation, develop it in such a way that it becomes a marketable product or service. Research indicates that there are a number of characteristics that are quite likely to be  Entrepreneurism is not for everyone because it requires hard work,  present in high-achieving entrepreneurs:  long hours and the ability to keep going in difficult times. It is not  • The ability to learn from others – entrepreneurs tend to be  sufficient just to have a good idea. The entrepreneur needs to  good at networking. They benefit from being members of  conduct market research to find out if it is a product that consumers  organisations like the IET where they can learn best practice  will be willing to buy at a price that yields an acceptable profit.  ideas from others. • Self confidence – a belief in their own abilities and ideas.  When Dyson built the Dual Cyclone it took thousands of hours of experimentation with over 5,000 prototypes (trial models) to iron out weaknesses. The process of testing and market research cost money. Entrepreneurs are not guaranteed a pay-off at the end of their hard work - more new enterprises fail than succeed. However, the rewards for successful enterprise are considerable.  • Being innovative/inventive – being able to generate ideas, either for new products/services or new ways of applying them. • Self motivation and determination – the drive to keep going and see things through. • Showing initiative – it is necessary to have not only the ideas for the business, but also the detailed plans to achieve objectives (both thinking and doing).  www.thetimes100.co.uk  33  