IET STUDY  29/8/12  10:27  Page 2  S T R AT E G Y  Entrepreneurship in engineering  Introduction  More recently engineers have embraced new technologies and materials to create alternative energy sources, such as wave  In an increasingly service-orientated world of work, it is easy to  power (from the sea) and credit card sized computers that plug  miss the vital role engineers play in transforming our lives.  straight into your TV (Raspberry Pi). They have designed high  Engineering is the crucible in which scientific, mathematic and  tech, energy-efficient buildings such as the new Olympic Park for  design skills come together. The Engineering industry makes up  the London 2012 Games. It was a British engineer and  nearly one-fifth of the UK economy and employs over 4.5 million people. The UK is still the world’s seventh biggest manufacturer. Engineering is a key part of a range of industries including music, TV and film, construction, transport, cosmetics, medicine, food and fashion.  entrepreneur, Tim-Berners Lee, who first developed the internet. For more information and insight into the impacts of engineering on our lives visit www.ietfaraday.org To be at the leading edge of engineering development, it is  Britain has been a leader in engineering for over 300 years. British engineers transformed modern transport by designing and building some of the first railway engines (Thomas Stevenson), ships  important for engineers to share their ideas. This is where the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) plays a vital role. The IET is a world leading professional organisation with the vision  (Isambard Kingdom Brunel), aeroplanes (Geoffrey de Havilland)  to share and advance knowledge, promoting science, engineering  and motor cars (Rolls-Royce). They also developed new road  and technology across the world. Through professional  building techniques, bridges and viaducts.  development, partnerships and networking the IET offers a professional home for life. It is a trusted source of essential engineering intelligence to over 150,000 members across 127 countries. Anyone with an interest in engineering can join the IET (www.theiet.org) to network with people with similar interests. The IET has developed close partnerships with businesses and is licensed to award a range of engineering qualifications such as CEng, IEng, Eng Tech and ICT Tech. Businesses have a massive demand for more engineers and technicians. The IET is heavily involved with running activities for students and developing resources for science, maths and technology teachers to enable students to see the relevance of their learning to the engineering sector. Engineering skills are particularly effective when combined with enterprise. This case study examines the relationship between engineering and enterprise and the role that the IET has played in developing engineer entrepreneurs.  32  Curriculum topics covered: • Entrepreneurs • Characteristics of an entrepreneur • Starting up a business • Engineering and enterprise  