IMI STUDY  29/8/12  10:28  Page 3  IMI’s strategy focuses on: • increasing business in its chosen niche markets • accelerating growth by investing in new products and emerging markets • maintaining high operating margins and reducing costs of manufacturing and costs within its supply chain. Few competitors can provide the specialist knowledge and tailored fluid engineering solutions IMI offers, so it is able to command higher margins for its high quality products and services in its chosen niche markets. IMI’s strategy brings together three key aspects: • its engineering skills in fluid technology and innovation • its market leading positions in its chosen niche markets • its exposure to markets which are benefitting from long term structural growth trends such as climate change and urbanisation. IMI calls the point of overlap between these three factors, the ‘sweetspot’. Where these three areas come together is known as strategic convergence. It is an area where IMI expects to achieve clear market leadership, higher profit margins, greater product differentiation, opportunities to meet global trends and to grow. Over half of IMI’s operations are positioned within the strategic ‘sweetspot’ today, with plans to increase this to over 70% over the next five years.  do things competitor products cannot. This enables IMI to attract higher profit margins as well as gaining clear market leadership and creating barriers to entry for other competitors. This strategy IMI defines as ‘Engineering Advantage’. By understanding the needs of its markets and customers, IMI is able to provide them with customised products and services. This creates customer loyalty and enhances competitive advantage. IMI’s technical focus is on the precise and reliable control of gases and fluids. However, to retain its leadership position IMI needs its people to develop business competencies such as: • Key Account Management (KAM) – which requires highly talented and customer-focused people to maintain the company’s in-depth insight into what its markets need. • Project management – translating the insight offered through KAM into products and services which deliver real commercial advantage for its customers. That advantage could be unique selling features to increase market share or lower supply chain costs. • Seizing the initiative in emerging economies – IMI invests in emerging economies – areas of the world that are rapidly growing and industrialising such as China, India, Brazil and Eastern Europe. These offer great potential for growth, so IMI needs people with strong commercial skills and local market knowledge to win new business.  Strategic convergence  IMI’s people are a key factor in helping to deliver its strategy and their skills are a core competence for the business. Engineering  Strategic convergence provides IMI with a clear focus. At the  and technical know-how is important. However, IMI looks for  ‘sweetspot’ IMI’s knowledge and skills are delivering products and  people who also have an entrepreneurial spirit. This mindset helps  services which meet long term customer needs and help to give  the company to look for new and creative ways to add value for  greater product differentiation. This means offering products which  customers and the business.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  37  