IMI STUDY  29/8/12  10:28  Page 2  S T R AT E G Y  Engineering Advantage – strategy in action  • Fluid Power – develops precision-engineered valves to control  Introduction  air or fluid flow in many industries. Examples of applications Achieving competitive advantage is not easy, particularly in global  include ventilators and anaesthesia machines; compressed air  markets. Businesses that do well in these markets need to be able  systems for train door control; and valve solutions for  to use their systems, technologies and knowledge effectively across the whole of the organisation and respond to local people, cultures and different ways of working.  controlling emissions on heavy duty trucks. • Severe Service – develops specialised valves to control the flow of steam, gas or fluids in heavy industries such as nuclear, oil and gas, and petrochemicals. These industries require the  One such organisation that uses its knowledge and expertise to achieve competitive advantage is IMI. IMI is a global engineering group involving many different engineering specialities. It is  highest levels of safety, operating in conditions of extreme pressure and temperature. • Indoor Climate – produces valve solutions for heating and  recognised worldwide for its innovation, expertise and global  cooling systems to reduce energy consumption, for example,  service and sells engineering solutions in over 50 countries to  thermostatic valves for radiators or energy efficient heating  match customer needs.  systems for office blocks such as the Shard in London. • Beverage Dispense – provides cooling and dispensing  IMI’s competitive advantage comes from combining the knowledge and skills of its people with an in-depth understanding of what its customers want and need. IMI’s strengths of expertise and innovation differentiate it in the markets it serves.  equipment for drinks such as carbonated soft drinks and smoothies for retailers, restaurants and hotels. • Merchandising – develops innovative displays for shops to influence consumer buying decisions.  IMI operates in a B2B (business to business) environment, providing  This case study looks at how IMI has developed its strategy  tailored products and services to companies. These include large  of ‘Engineering Advantage’, combining its skills and  household names such as Chevron, Shell, Volvo Trucks, General  knowledge, customer insight and innovation to achieve global  Motors, Coca-Cola and McDonalds, as well as smaller niche  market leadership.  companies dealing in specialised equipment or building materials.  Setting strategy The company has a long history of working in valve and fluid engineering technology. It uses this expertise to design and  Strategies are the long-term plans that a business puts in place to  develop products to control the flow of liquids or gases for  achieve its aims and objectives. IMI’s goal is to achieve market  organisations in a wide range of markets. These include nuclear,  leadership in the global niche markets it serves. A niche market is  oil and gas, medical devices and the food and drink industry. By  a relatively small and often highly specialised segment of a market,  providing specialised products and services, IMI adds value for  which has few competing companies supplying it.  customers and helps them, for example, to reduce carbon emissions or improve energy efficiency.  There are many different strategies an organisation can choose to achieve its goals. For example, these might include developing  The business spans five areas or ‘platforms’, most of which rely on  new products, growing by acquiring other companies or  IMI’s core skills and competencies in valve and fluid engineering:  reducing costs.  36  Curriculum topics covered: • Strategy • Values • SLEPT analysis • Innovation  