IMI STUDY  29/8/12  10:28  Page 5  www.imiplc.com  4. Ageing population  The IMI Way is an integrated approach across the company and  IMI’s technical expertise is also used to support many different  enables the business to achieve sustainability in its management of:  types of medical equipment. As the global population is living  • Health and safety – IMI promotes a strong health and safety  longer, more support is needed to keep people healthy. IMI is  culture. This minimises risks to people as well as to communities and the environment.  delivering specialised products to support this.  • Energy efficiency – IMI has an internal commitment to become more energy efficient in developing its products and processes. Shenzhen Mindray Electronic Co Ltd is a developer of  • Risk in the supply chain – IMI sources materials and  medical devices for patient monitoring in China. The  components from many countries. To make sure that products  company needed a regulator to control the flow of inlet  are sourced responsibly, it sets out standards for its suppliers  gas for a life support ventilator. This had to meet very strict  as part of its Supply Chain policy. This includes aspects such  size dimensions and performance specifications. IMI’s new  as minimum working conditions.  regulator is 15% lighter and 20% smaller than those previously available, which makes the device more  • Supporting customers to act responsibly in business – IMI helps its customers to recognise and develop opportunities for sustainability.  portable and convenient. The new regulator is also 60% quicker to assemble and is 10% cheaper than previous models. This has enabled Mindray to supply more  Kroger Co. is one of the largest US grocery retailers.  ventilators across China and the world and meet the  Sustainability is one of its core values. In 2010 it introduced a  increasing need for life support systems.  new retail service area in which frozen beverages could be served. To support this service they wanted a sustainable frozen dispenser, with high performance and reliability. IMI’s  Internal values  expertise produced a final product which reduced energy consumption and wear on components. In addition, the LED  IMI believes in behaving responsibly towards all its stakeholders,  lighting used in the product provided seven times the life  including its customers, shareholders and employees. Its values of  expectancy of traditional bulbs. The effect was to reduce  Excellence, Innovation and Integrity guide the behaviours of all  carbon footprint, eliminate waste and create energy savings  employees. Values are the beliefs shared by those within an  of more than 25% over traditional equipment.  organisation which underpin its business strategies. IMI’s values translate through its processes to increase the value  Conclusion  of its products and services to customers. They also define the high standards for how the business and its employees deal with customers and stakeholders. This commitment to the business behaving in a responsible manner is known as the IMI Way.  Using a powerful combination of knowledge, skills and market insight enables IMI not only to develop innovative solutions for its customers, but also to create a competitive advantage. IMI’s strategy of Engineering Advantage enables IMI to support its customers in niche markets across the globe in a responsible way. It  Excellence  Integrity  Innovation  brings together the company’s values, expertise and knowledge in order to meet the challenges of the global drivers it has identified. Its strategy brings together its people and processes to maximise the capabilities of the business, provide more value for customers and make the organisation distinctive.  • Providing value to customers • Understanding and meeting customers’ needs  • Demanding the highest ethical standards from ourselves, our partners and our suppliers • Not compromising on health and safety  1. Describe what is meant by a niche market. (2 marks) 2. Explain the purpose of developing a business strategy. (4 marks) 3. Analyse how managing knowledge and skills contributes to IMI’s competitive advantage. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate other ways in which IMI might differentiate the business within global markets. (8 marks)  IMI | Engineering Advantage – strategy in action  Exam-style questions  • Delivering results • Reliable products delivered on-time  39  