IMI STUDY  29/8/12  10:28  Page 4  IMI also supports ongoing development of its people in various  2. Resource scarcity  ways in order to maintain its innovative edge. For example, the IMI  There is a global need to manage resources such as water and  Key Account Management Academy not only provides training for  energy more efficiently in order to ensure sustainability. IMI is  employees but also establishes best practice across the Group.  developing a range of engineering solutions to manage the use of  This also helps the company to transfer knowledge from one part  energy, water and waste more efficiently. IMI’s innovative engineering  of the business to another.  has also developed ways of controlling building environments.  External drivers for growth Businesses need to take account of and react to what is happening outside the company – the external environment. These environmental factors may be analysed through the acronym SLEPT. These stand for: • Social factors – for example, the UK’s ageing population is affecting the availability of skills • Legal factors – regulatory standards or legislation such as Health & Safety might lead to increased training needs  In France IMI has developed the country’s first ‘energy positive’ building which produces more energy than it consumes. IMI’s technical skills in valve and fluid control have produced a new pressurisation and heating control system. This allows the building owner to control the temperature of each room depending upon heating requirements. This not only gives better comfort to users, but the building has been designed to reduce energy consumption by 65% compared to buildings constructed under current standards of regulation.  • Economic factors – the current global recession is causing downturn in demand • Political factors – government initiatives are requiring businesses to address the issues of climate change • Technological factors – the impact of the internet makes it easier to compare the value of products and services.  3. Urbanisation The rapid urbanisation taking place around the world, particularly in emerging markets such as China, requires significant investment in mass transit infrastructure. This is to ensure that the rapidly expanding urban populations have reliable transport options to  These external factors may influence how a business will achieve  enable them to travel easily around the cities and, of course, to work.  its strategies. By monitoring the external environment it is possible to identify whether factors represent either an opportunity or a  CSR Zhuzhou in China services main line electric locomotive  threat to achieving its strategies.  trains. They required a new type of pantograph (the equipment which links the train to the overhead electricity  IMI has identified four clear global trends within its external  cables) as their existing pantograph could only cope with  environment. These trends are shaping the direction that the  speeds of up to 200km per hour. IMI’s subsidiary, Norgren,  business is taking to achieve growth.  was able to create a new pantograph which could operate effectively at 400km per hour in addition to coping with  1. Climate change  temperature fluctuations from - 40°C to +80°C – without  IMI has responded to this global issue by developing products to  affecting performance. The new technology and design not  provide cleaner energy as well as helping organisations to reduce  only met the high standards of the Chinese Ministry of Rail,  their energy consumption.  but also effectively utilised both standard and bespoke Norgren technology to set it apart from the competition.  IMI is supplying severe service valves into a number of major liquefied natural gas projects (LNG) in Australasia. The demand for LNG has been growing because gas is a much cleaner fuel to use for power generation than coal. IMI has a market-leading position in applications such as anti-surge valves. These valves have to be able to provide very precise control at very low temperatures down to minus 162°C.  38  www.thetimes100.co.uk  