JD SPORTS STUDY  29/8/12  10:28  Page 2  MARKETING  Using market research to support decision making  The group has also secured brands such as The Duffer of  Introduction  St George, Sergio Tacchini (under UK licence) and the fashion Organisations that operate in the business-to-consumer (B2C)  brands Chilli Pepper, Nanny State and Sonneti. The JD Sports  market are increasingly turning to market research to support their  Fashion Group now has over 900 stores across the UK and  decision making processes. A retail business, for example, might  Europe and a reputation for stocking exclusive and stylish ranges.  be considering opening new stores, expanding internationally, proposing to diversify its product range or thinking about acquiring another company. Before proceeding, the business will require specific information to understand the implications of making such changes. The process of collecting this information and developing this understanding is known as market research. This case study focuses on how JD (part of JD Sports Fashion PLC), the UK’s leading retailer of fashionable sports and leisure wear, uses market research to support and develop its business. As a B2C retailer, JD’s performance depends on providing the most desirable brands and products at the right price and in the  What is market research? The exchange between sellers (supply) and buyers (demand) for particular goods or services is called a market. A market does not necessarily exist in a single location, nor need it be a real location – products can be bought and sold online. Markets change constantly and businesses need to have a clear understanding of both the supply and demand. The principal role of market research, therefore, is to provide a business with a comprehensive view of consumers in order to develop products and services that satisfy their needs better than the competition.  right locations to meet with the demands of the consumer. Also, given the increased complexity of the business environment, Founded in 1981 in Mossley, near Manchester, JD today is a  it is no longer enough to make key decisions using a ‘gut-feel’  nationally recognised UK high street fascia. For 20 years, the  approach alone. Decisions need to be informed and market  business expanded through organic growth, meaning that growth  research helps to support this process, significantly reducing the  was generated by building sales revenue through increasing its  level of financial risk attached with investment decisions.  network of stores. JD has expanded more rapidly in recent years through acquisitions (inorganic growth), significantly increasing its JD store base through the purchase of First Sport (2002) and All:sports (2005). Through the purchase of Scotts (2004), Bank (2007) and, most recently, Blacks (2012), it has diversified the business into the young branded fashion and outdoor markets. The Group has also made international acquisitions including Chausport (France), Champion Sports (Ireland) and Sprinter (Spain) as it has expanded its business overseas. 40  Curriculum topics covered: • What is market research? • Primary market research • Secondary market research • Quantitative and qualitative market research  