JD SPORTS STUDY  29/8/12  10:28  Page 3  Market research involves the capture and analysis of consumer,  These are:  competitor and market trend data. This enables JD to assess  • market penetration – winning greater market share in its  more accurately the level of demand for its products. It also influences decisions to target capital investment on projects that will offer the best return on that investment, such as opening a  existing markets • market development – entering new countries or new retail sectors  new store or entering a new market.  • product development – acquiring or developing new products  Market research provides consumer feedback. It is essential for JD  • diversification – taking the business in a completely new  or brands to have this dialogue with the consumer to gain insight into what  direction.  they think about its range of products, brands and services. This enables the business to meet its demands and outperform the Product  competition. It helps the business develop a clear and informed strategic business plan which all business colleagues can work  Present  New  Market  towards fulfilling. For example, this information can create a winning marketing mix to target promotions to reach different customer  Present  Market penetration  Product development  New  Market development  Diversification  groups or influence decisions on range planning in new stores.  Market research informs the marketing mix  Primary market research Product decisions Focused on consumer expectations  Prices Create value for customers  Place Stores in locations convenient for customers  Promotion Reach customers through targeted messages  There are principally two types of market research – primary and secondary. Primary research is sometimes known as field research. This is because it involves gathering data through new  Research can also provide information about the size and  research. This data can be collected in either a quantitative or  performance of markets. It can inform a business about who the  qualitative format.  key competitors are, what they are doing, and their market share. Potential areas of opportunity within an international, national and  Quantitative research is numerically-based and obtains the hard  local context can also be identified. By using tools such as an  numbers from which decisions can be made with confidence.  Ansoff’s matrix to assess the levels of risk, JD can then decide  Examples of quantitative market research at JD include:  which marketing strategies to focus on.  • Exit surveys – carried out face-to-face with consumers as they leave the store. This is a simple survey covering a cross-section of stores to gather the views of consumers in different locations and regions. At JD the purpose of the survey is primarily to understand the reasons for visit, frequency of visit/purchase and reasons for and against purchase. • The ‘shopping bag’ survey – the JD research team monitors what carrier bags customers entering JD stores are carrying. This helps identify what other stores JD customers use and are spending money in. It provides competitor insight and an idea of which retailers attract a similar customer profile to JD, a variable that can influence the location of new JD store openings. • On-site fieldwork – JD’s dedicated Site Research team invests significant time researching new locations. This involves defining the extent of a location’s catchment area, reviewing the presence and quality of the competition and assessing the pitch and visibility (i.e. how busy the area is) of a unit. This helps build a detailed SWOT analysis of each new site.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  41  