JD SPORTS STUDY  2/10/12  14:09  Page 4  • Commercial market research reports – prepared by research experts, these provide estimates of the size (volume of sales) in each product or market category and market share by operators within these sectors. At JD this information is invaluable when assessing new product markets (e.g. outdoors) or international opportunities (e.g. France and Spain). However, there are drawbacks with any form of market research. It costs money to collect and analyse large amounts of information and the results are not always definitive. Numerical data might be biased, particularly if the sample size is too small. Focus groups may be skewed if one member of a focus group is too dominant and stops others from voicing their opinions. Qualitative information is a primary form of market research which  Market research at JD  focuses on consumer feelings and opinions on a product or service. This type of research illuminates the facts and figures  The location of stores is a critical element of the success of a  collected through quantitative research. Examples of qualitative  retailer in any market. Sound competitive locations can provide a  research at JD include:  source of competitive advantage. To achieve this it is essential to  • Focus groups – by speaking at length with small groups of  build a clear understanding of the consumer and how they interact  8-10 people, more insightful questions can be asked regarding  with a retailer and its sales channels (i.e. stores, internet or kiosks).  brands and new product developments. At JD these are typically run in schools and colleges, where it can get direct  So, how does JD build up information about its consumers and  feedback from its core consumers.  develop a clear location strategy? One method employed by the  • Depth interviews – this involves a researcher accompanying the  company is its check-out survey. This is a simple but highly  consumer on a shopping trip in store. This drills deeper into  effective survey that is carried out with customers at the till. By  shopper behaviour and their reactions to stores.  collecting the customer’s home postcode, gender and age and matching this data to the products purchased, JD can build up  When undertaking market research, it is important to reflect the  detailed consumer profiles.  views of all consumers within the business’ target market. However, this would be a huge exercise. One way of managing this is to use sampling methods. Sampling involves taking the responses of a representative group of consumers that are likely to reflect the opinions of the customer base.  Secondary market research Secondary research is sometimes known as ‘desk research’. This research draws on material that has been collected by another organisation to provide market information. Secondary research data provides a fact-based overview of the market. Examples of secondary research include: • Government census data – the census is conducted every 10 years across the UK and brings together data on factors such as the number of people, their ages and occupations in a location. • Geo-demographic data – collected by specialist agencies, this segmentation tool profiles consumers based on their lifestage (e.g. marital status, number of children) and their lifestyle (e.g. newspapers read, leisure activities, TV programmes watched). 42  www.thetimes100.co.uk  