JD SPORTS STUDY  29/8/12  10:28  Page 5  www.jdsports.co.uk  JD also asks purchasers a further question: has the item been  It is important that research is properly managed to ensure that the  purchased for yourself or for another person? This helps JD to  data collected is valid and reliable. It is also useful, where practical, to  understand the difference between customers (the purchaser) and  use a variety of methods to validate research findings. At JD the  its consumers (the end user). For example, some purchases are  findings from the exit surveys (smaller sample sizes) are validated by  made by parents buying clothes or shoes for their children. This  the check-out survey (larger sample size).  additional question helps prevent the survey results from being misinterpreted. The survey is carried out annually over a two-week period and involves over 350,000 customers. This provides a robust sample from  Put together, this information helps JD to anticipate the level of demand customers may have for its products. Sales expectations can be accurately forecast to ensure profitable stores are opened.  which to extract invaluable insights into consumer buying behaviour. In-depth analysis of the survey results helps the company:  JD has also embraced the internet as a means to support business  • understand how far customers travel to stores – this enables  strategies. The data collected through the online ordering process is  JD to define real catchment areas for each store and  ‘live’ information and it provides a valuable insight into consumer  understand the overlap with other existing stores  demand. It can influence store ranges and support decisions about  • build consumer profiles by gender, age, brand and lifestyle  its stores network by highlighting ‘hotspots’ with high levels of  • identify and quantify new store location opportunities  demand but no physical presence. In an increasingly multi-channel  • influence product ranges to meet the buying habits of  world, capturing, analysing and acting on this information offers a  customers in different locations • assist with marketing strategies to target the consumer  business a key competitive advantage. Again, this information can provide useful insight into potential international opportunities.  more effectively.  Conclusion This type of information is collected regularly by large retailers such as supermarkets through the data collected on their store loyalty  In recent years, the UK retail industry has faced challenging  cards. However, loyalty card schemes can be very expensive to run.  conditions. However, against this tough economic backdrop,  Till surveys, although only providing a snapshot of the consumer,  JD has managed to maintain growth through a thorough  offer a cost effective means of gathering data. JD is relatively unique  understanding of market opportunities. Market research is not a  on the high street in using this type of survey to capture additional  one-off process. Markets change and a business like JD needs to  customer information. More recently this survey has been replicated  evaluate customer trends and monitor competitors on a regular  across JD stores in France and Spain.  basis in order to remain competitive. JD has therefore established research mechanisms to provide ongoing feedback. These provide a mix of qualitative and quantitative market data obtained directly from consumers and from published research. By understanding its consumer base, JD has established itself as the market leading retailer of fashionable sports and leisure wear.  1. Describe the difference between primary and  purpose of market research. (4 marks) 3. Analyse why market research should be viewed as an ongoing process. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate how market research, if undertaken properly, adds value to the decisions made by a large company.  Exam-style questions  secondary market research. (2 marks) 2. Use an example from the case study to explain the  Why does it help to reduce risk? (8 marks)  JD Sports | Using market research to support decision making  43  