kellogg's  29/8/12  10:29  Page 4  Objective  Target audience  Develop greater understanding of the impact of Kellogg’s long-term  Shareholders, employees, customers, national media, wider public,  support of breakfast clubs as part of its Corporate Responsibility  government, others  programme Change or increase public awareness of the impact of breakfast  Shareholders, employees, consumers, national media, wider public,  club closures  government, others  Raise additional funding for breakfast clubs by attracting  Consumers  consumers to support the initiative through donations made from the purchase of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes Improve public perception of the company  Consumers, the wider public and key opinion formers  Motivate employees by involving them in the initiative  Employees  However, the campaign was primarily designed for the needs of  Using the right medium  external audiences. These included: • Schools – to alert them to the Kellogg’s grants available, inviting them to apply for funding. • The media – to generate excitement and press interest  In order to convey any message effectively to a targeted audience, the most suitable medium and channel needs to be used. For example, if a company wants to promote products with a mass  about the campaign and to increase public awareness of the  market appeal to a wide audience, it might use well-scripted  issues involved.  television advertising. To advertise a job opportunity for a finance  • Parents – to demonstrate Kellogg’s socially responsible stance and inform them how breakfast clubs could support their children. • Members of Parliament (MPs) – asking them to encourage  director of a company, a business might place an advertisement in the Financial Times (or other financial and business-related publications). Take, for example, the message that ‘Kellogg’s supports breakfast  schools in their constituencies (i.e. the area that they had been  clubs’. How should Kellogg’s communicate this message to  voted to represent) to apply for funding.  children and parents? Kellogg’s approach was to use a multi-  • The public – to attract consumers to buy Kellogg’s products  platform campaign. This is an approach which communicates over  in order to generate additional funding for the breakfast  a range of media, rather than using just one, in order to reach  club initiative.  many different audiences. The various campaign communications involved a mixture of formal and informal communications. Formal communications are through approved channels and so might include, for example, a company policy document or a press release. Kellogg’s formal communications included the letters sent to MPs. In contrast, informal communication is more spontaneous and less structured, for example, a chat with colleagues over coffee. Informal communication can be very effective in a business as it has the advantage of being quicker and more direct. Kellogg’s face-to-face interactions at breakfast clubs and the briefing to mummy bloggers demonstrated a more informal approach to communication. The problem with informal communication is that it could result in rumours that can cause messages to be mistrusted or even convey inaccurate information.  46  www.thetimes100.co.uk  