kellogg's  29/8/12  10:29  Page 2  PEOPLE  Devising a communication plan  Introduction  Kellogg’s has been active in supporting breakfast clubs in schools for many years, working with the education charity ContinYou, the  Research shows that children benefit from eating a healthy  experts on breakfast clubs. Breakfast clubs provide a healthy meal  breakfast prior to the start of the school day. However, too often  at the start of the day in a safe and friendly environment. They also  children have no breakfast at all or eat chocolate or crisps and a  provide a great opportunity for kids to play, learn and socialise  fizzy drink on their way to school.  with classmates.  This case study examines how Kellogg’s devised a plan to  Since 1998, this partnership has set up 500 breakfast clubs in  communicate the importance of breakfast to selected target  schools across the UK. Interested schools have been supported  audiences through a multi-platform campaign. This was in support  with training on how to start a club and have received a start-up  of its ‘Help give a child a breakfast’ campaign launched in  grant from Kellogg’s.  October 2011. According to research by Kellogg’s, many schools have run into Kellogg’s is the world’s leading producer of cereals. Its products  trouble with the funding of their breakfast club due to recent  are manufactured in 18 countries and sold in more than 180  budget cuts by the UK government. Kellogg’s responded by  countries. Kellogg’s produces some of the world’s most easily  putting a team together to create a communications plan which  recognisable brands such as Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, Coco Pops  highlighted the importance of breakfast clubs to parents, schools,  and Rice Krispies. For more than 100 years, Kellogg’s has been a  the UK government and the public.  leader in health and nutrition through providing consumers with a wide variety of food products.  Writing a communication plan The communication process involves transmitting information from a sender to a receiver. However, effective communication needs to ensure that the message has been not only received but also clearly understood. This is relevant whether the communication is internal or external.  Sender  Encoding  Message/ Media  Decoding  Receiver  The communication process Feedback  Response  The message needs to be sent in a way that will appeal to and be understood easily by the target receiver or audience. This involves selecting an appropriate format or channel to deliver the message. 44  Curriculum topics covered: • The communications process • A communication plan • Communication channels • Barriers to communication  