kellogg's  29/8/12  10:29  Page 3  Examples of media that may be used include a leaflet, a television  Research with teachers showed that the majority believe that the  advert and a personal letter. The feedback part of the process is  lack of breakfast opportunities would lead to poorer academic  vital as this is how the sender knows if the message has been  results and worsening behaviour in schools.  received correctly. The purpose of the Kellogg’s campaign was to show its For the message to be effective, barriers to communication (known as ‘noise’) need to be eliminated or reduced. Noise is anything that might distort the message or prevent the receiver getting or understanding the message. For example, noise might include using language or jargon that the receiver will not understand or using a channel such as email or the internet when the receiver does not have a computer.  commitment to breakfast clubs in schools in the UK. The important messages that the campaign was aiming to get across were that: • breakfast is important for people of all ages especially young people • breakfast clubs positively impact on children’s behaviour, attendance and ability to concentrate in morning lessons • Kellogg’s has supported breakfast clubs since 1998  A communications plan uses the same principles of tailoring the message and the delivery channel for a target audience.  • by buying Kellogg’s Corn Flakes you are helping to feed children at breakfast clubs.  A communications plan also sets out the overall objectives to be  Kellogg’s faced potential noise for its messages from different  achieved and the means by which these will be measured.  sources. At the time, the government spending review was high profile in the press which could have resulted in the Kellogg’s story being overlooked. In addition, other food companies also support  Research  breakfast clubs which could have led to confusion or dilution Overall objectives  of its messages.  Message Audience  It also needed to make clear that this was not a marketing effort Specific targets  to promote Kellogg’s brands but a part of the company’s longstanding Corporate Responsibility programme. Corporate  Channels and formats Findings Evaluation  Responsibility involves understanding the impact the business has on the wider community and working to make that impact positive. Kellogg’s has been supporting breakfast clubs in schools and local communities for 14 years and has invested over £1.5 million to date.  Businesses engage in both internal and external communication.  Fitting the message to the audience  Internal communication may involve transmitting messages to shareholders, senior managers, other employees or contractors.  The Kellogg’s breakfast club campaign had a number of key  Communication externally may be to a range of stakeholders  objectives which depended on promoting the right messages to  including customers, suppliers, the media, government or the  different audiences. Key aspects of the campaign were not only to  wider public. In each case, the nature of the message and the  get messages across about the benefits of breakfast and  format used may be tailored to suit the audience. An effective  breakfast clubs, but also to raise funds for the clubs through the  internal communications plan can help to give clear direction  sale of Kellogg’s products and to make schools aware of the  within the organisation and improve employee motivation.  available funding from Kellogg’s to support their breakfast clubs.  Externally, it can even change public opinion. In order to achieve these objectives, Kellogg’s devised a  Background and purpose  communication plan for internal and external stakeholders.  Research commissioned by Kellogg’s showed that as many as  employees. They were encouraged to get involved through  1 in 7 children in the UK do not eat breakfast and that up to 25%  information posted on the company intranet (internal  eat crisps, chocolate or fast food on the way to school. In addition,  communication). Employees were also invited to attend a  1 in every 8 (around 3,000) breakfast clubs in the UK have closed  breakfast club in the atrium of the Kellogg’s building with two local  due to government budget cuts and up to 45% of remaining clubs  primary schools and then visit breakfast clubs that received  were at risk of closure.  funding from Kellogg’s.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  The main internal stakeholders being targeted were Kellogg’s  45  