kellogg's  2/10/12  14:10  Page 5  www.kelloggs.co.uk  Campaign activities  Format/channel of communication Written communications  • Letters were sent to MPs and to schools • Press releases were sent to television, radio and newspapers (as well as appearing on the Kellogg’s website) • Information about the campaign was added to eight million boxes of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes • Information for employees was communicated through internal briefings and posters displayed in the company’s social areas e.g. reception and restaurant  Television and radio advertising  • Various visual (television) and audio (radio) advertisements were placed • The launch of the campaign featured on ITV’s Daybreak programme  Internet and social media  • A dedicated website featured the campaign and included videos of a local breakfast club • A twibbon (a method of raising awareness through Twitter) was created so that people could show their support for the campaign on their twitter and facebook accounts • A media partnership was created with Netmums (a social networking site for parents offering advice, information of interest and a blog) • Messages were communicated through the company intranet • Kellogg’s employees also received voicemail messages encouraging them to support the campaign  Face-to-face  • Kellogg’s held a briefing day about the campaign with mummy bloggers • MPs were invited to attend their local breakfast clubs to award funding cheques • Kellogg’s employees volunteered at their local breakfast club and joined a breakfast club held at a Kellogg’s on-site launch  Conclusion  These results clearly indicate that Kellogg’s has communicated its messages effectively. The time taken in planning the  Breakfast clubs provide a healthy meal at the start of the day in a  communications through a multi-platform approach worked in  safe and friendly environment. They also provide a great  relation to each of the targeted audiences. As a food company  opportunity for kids to play, learn and socialise with classmates.  that takes its responsibility for nutrition seriously, Kellogg’s has maintained its commitment to write to and talk to key government  Kellogg’s has long supported breakfast clubs and so planned a multi-platform approach to communicate key messages about the importance of breakfast and breakfast clubs to various audiences. The feedback to any communication is important to evaluate  officials to get the message over about the importance of breakfast for children. This highlights how effective communication is not just a one-off event but an ongoing cycle requiring evaluation and a response to feedback received.  whether messages are reaching the target audience effectively. Kellogg’s therefore carried out an evaluation of its campaign. Highlights include: • The first six weeks of the campaign generated 73 press articles  process? (2 marks) 2. Explain two benefits of Kellogg’s using its multi-  Daybreak and news articles in The Observer and The  platform campaign to communicate its messages.  Independent. All carried positive reaction to the messages and  (4 marks)  reached a potential audience of nine million people. • Over 700 schools applied for funding and around 500 of these received a grant of up to £450 for their breakfast club. • Kellogg’s employees have attended 15 of those breakfast clubs with the local MP to see what difference the funding has made to the children. • The money raised from the campaign will provide a million  3. Choose two audiences of Kellogg’s campaign shown in the case study and identify which media you think would be particularly effective for getting the messages across to them, explaining why. (6 marks)  Exam-style questions  across a variety of media – including news coverage on ITV’s  1. What are the key steps in the communication  4. How far do you think the Kellogg’s campaign will go in changing the press and public opinion about breakfast clubs? Justify your opinions. (8 marks)  breakfasts by the end of 2012. Kellogg’s | Devising a communication plan  47  