LA FARGE STUDY  2/10/12  14:11  Page 2  S T R AT E G Y  Developing a sustainable supply chain to add value  Introduction Health & Safety  Lafarge values  Lafarge may not be a company name that you would quickly recognise but its products and expertise have helped to create some of the UK’s biggest infrastructure projects, including the M25 motorway, the Channel Tunnel, Canary Wharf in London and Sustainability  several UK power stations.  Innovation  The Lafarge Group is the world’s largest supplier of building materials and has a global reputation for developing creative and innovative products, services and solutions. The company produces essential products – cement, aggregates and concrete –  Global expertise and local knowledge  Customer service  which are integral to society. Cement and concrete are basic materials in all walks of life – everyone relies on the country’s infrastructure such as roads, hospitals, power stations, housing Managing health and safety for employees, contractors, the wider  and railways.  public and the environment throughout these processes is vital. The Group employs over 68,000 people in 64 countries and  Lafarge believes that ‘No task is so important that anyone should  Lafarge’s four Business Units in the UK (Cement, Aggregates,  get hurt doing it’ (Dyfrig James, President Lafarge UK). It has a  Readymix concrete, and Asphalt) have nearly 3,000 employees  stated goal of ‘Zero Harm’ – that is, zero accidents, incidents or  working across more than 200 sites around the country. As  job-related illness. This objective applies to employees, its supply  market leader, it holds around 40% of the UK cement market.  chain and the public.  Lafarge’s business is based on its core values. These, along with highly skilled and experienced people, provide the platform for  Together, the drive for increased sustainability, coupled with a  operating safely and responsibly.  continuous focus on health and safety, is generating a need for high quality recruits at both graduate and apprentice levels. They  Lafarge is facing many interesting challenges. As a major extractor  will provide the creative solutions that the business and the  of raw materials in the primary sector, issues of sustainability and  industry need to meet these challenges. Such recruits are needed,  corporate social responsibility are of high importance. The drive for  not just in science or engineering, but also in manufacturing and  increased sustainability affects every part of Lafarge’s activities –  commercial parts of the business.  from extraction and manufacture, to transport and delivery, to waste reduction and restoration. In recognition of its high record of  This case study will explore how Lafarge UK is active in all three  achievement, Lafarge has won several major industry awards in  sectors of industry and how it manages the need to develop the  the UK, including one from the Environment Agency for its work  business alongside protecting the environment and respecting  on recycling water.  local communities.  48  Curriculum topics covered: • Sectors of industry • Supply chain • Sustainability • Efficiency  