LA FARGE STUDY  29/8/12  10:29  Page 3  The interdependence between the sectors is known as the ‘chain  Sectors of industry and sustainable supply chains  of production’. This identifies the interlinked stages that a product goes through from raw materials to arriving at the final customer.  Business activities may be classified by the type of production that  Each stage adds value to the previous one. A sustainable supply  takes place. All activities fall into one of the following three sectors  chain aims to ensure that the business is conducted in a manner  of industry:  which can be maintained in the future and which does not impact  • Primary – involving the extraction of raw materials or the  adversely on future generations. The key challenge is to deliver  growing of crops  products and services that give value to the business and the  • Secondary – involving a transformation of raw materials into  customer, whilst maintaining a positive environmental impact.  finished goods • Tertiary – covering the provision of services.  Lafarge operates in all three sectors of its industry, extracting raw materials, manufacturing finished goods and providing sales and after-sales service for customers. In this way, Lafarge is able to  Examples of job roles across Lafarge’s sectors of activity  take control of and manage not just operational efficiencies but also quality, health and safety and its impact on the environment.  • Surveyor • Geologist • Quarry manager  Primary  • Chemist • Scientist • Production manager  Secondary  Planning/ Extraction  R&D/ Manufacturing  Transportation  Sales and after-sales service  • Technical support • Sales • Customer service  Tertiary  Since the C19th, the balance of UK activity overall has been  Primary sector  changing, moving to an increasingly service-orientated economy. Industries such as mining (primary) and manufacturing (secondary)  Cement is a product that originally dates back to the Egyptians  have reduced due to cheaper goods from overseas competitors.  and Romans. However, since its ‘rediscovery’ in the C19th, it has  In 2011, the primary sector accounted for 1.4% of UK GDP, the  been evolving in response to new technology and innovation  secondary sector for around 22% of GDP, with the tertiary sector  resulting in the complex product of today. In a typical year, the UK  dominating with just over 76% of GDP. However, certain key  mineral products industry contributes to the building of 160,000  industries in the UK, such as steel and cement, have experienced  new homes, improvements to water services and the maintenance  growth, with new technologies and innovation driving demand.  of the UK road and rail networks.  Lafarge therefore needs more people with both specialist and There are around 1,300 quarries and manufacturing sites in the  generalist skills to meet that growth.  UK producing £5bn worth of products each year. Over 80% of the raw materials used in its processes come from Lafarge’s own  Sectors of industry and the supply chain Raw materials  Manufacturing  Primary Sector  Secondary Sector  Tertiary Sector  Extracts or develops natural resources such as timber, agriculture, oil or minerals.  Makes use of primary extracted materials to build, manufacture or develop finished products.  Provides the services needed to meet the needs of the end users, for example through retailing, distribution, insurance and other cutomer services.  Retailer  Distribution  Consumer  operations and are therefore under its direct control. This integrated supply chain ensures Lafarge can manage quality, quantity and guaranteed delivery though its own activities. In its primary sector activities, Lafarge’s extraction processes involve drilling or controlled explosions to blast limestone, granite, shale or clay from quarries. This provides the raw ingredients required to make cement, aggregates and concrete. The rock is transported to a crusher to produce the different sizes of rock needed to suit different products for customers.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  49  