LA FARGE STUDY  29/8/12  10:29  Page 4  Lafarge is committed to sourcing its materials and managing extraction in the most responsible and sustainable way possible. Rock quarries are usually operated for many decades and then restored. Sand and gravel quarries are shallower than rock quarries and can be worked in stages. This means the land is used and restored in phases. As the majority of raw materials to make cement comes from new quarries, Lafarge is also investigating how it can reduce dependence on these sources. It is looking at ways of treating waste and by-products from other industries to replace natural materials. This is an important aspect of its sustainable practices. In addition, it works with external bodies such as the Environment Agency in the planning stages of assessing a new quarry site. This  It creates value for the client due to less time being needed for  means Lafarge can take into account key issues affecting the  application and lower costs of equipment. This also contributes to  environment from the outset. At the end of the quarry’s life,  a healthier environment for construction workers.  Lafarge is committed to the restoration of land. For example, it uses recovered inert waste from its extraction and waste  The manufacturing process to create cement involves heating the  management processes as part of the restoration process.  raw materials to a very high temperature, grinding the clinker finely and adding different minerals to the resulting cement to give  It then works in partnership with other organisations (such as the  different properties. Important properties customers look for  Staffordshire Wildlife Trust) to re-use the land for the good of the  include increased resistance to weather or a higher quality finish.  community and to provide a lasting legacy. For example, the  Lafarge is the leader in the development of low carbon cement  National Memorial in Staffordshire is on a former quarry site.  products and has five main manufacturing locations, producing  Lafarge has also been involved in managing 34 SSSIs (Sites of  five million tonnes of cement each year.  Special Scientific Interest), as well as creating award-winning parks, lakes and education centres. Over 700 SSSIs have been  By its nature, cement manufacturing consumes large amounts of  developed in the UK from former sites of mineral operations.  non-renewable resources and also generates CO2. Lafarge is therefore committed to reviewing its processes to reduce its impact  Secondary sector  on the environment. Its production plants are certified under British Standards for both quality and environmental management. One  A business will aim to add value (both financial and non-financial)  way in which Lafarge helps to minimise its impact and emissions is  as a product moves from inputs to outputs across the three  by having on-site concrete production plants for large-scale  sectors of industry.  projects. This is more efficient and enables Lafarge to provide continuous supply throughout the life of the project.  Input +  manufacturing process  =  output with added value  As a major user of significant amounts of water in its processes, Lafarge is also piloting ‘water footprint’ assessments. These aim to use water more efficiently and reduce consumption where  Globally Lafarge invests over 170 million Euros every year into  possible. Other examples of Lafarge’s ‘best practice’ include:  research and development. This makes it one of the world’s leading  • using the fly-ash waste product from iron and steel smelting to  research and development companies. This investment helps to provide ongoing innovation in its secondary sector production processes which benefits customers. Its skilled chemists and  make low-carbon cement • using alternatives to fossil fuels (such as chipped used tyres) in the kiln heating process  scientists work in laboratories across the UK. For example, it  • investing in more efficient manufacturing units  created a self-compacting concrete called Agilia®. This saves  • offering a cement recycling service to customers for unused,  customers' time and money in the construction process. 50  outdated bags of products. www.thetimes100.co.uk  