LA FARGE STUDY  29/8/12  10:29  Page 5  www.lafarge.co.uk  Lafarge also takes innovation right through the supply chain into its packaging. Its weather-resistant plastic packaging is easier to handle and is tear-resistant. Both effects benefit customers. Plastic packaging for cement, perhaps surprisingly, is more sustainable than paper as less material is lost through damaged bags, which is better for the environment.  Tertiary sector At the later stages of the supply chain, Lafarge’s activities in the tertiary (or service) sector range from transporting finished goods to providing a specialist advice and after-sales service for customers. This ensures they get the best use of the products.  By adopting the principles of re-using waste products from other industries, Lafarge can respond to environmental challenges in a sustainable way:  Lafarge supplies its products in large volumes to intermediaries, such as local authorities or building companies, where the products are used on major projects. An example is Terminal 5 at Heathrow Airport.  • Its energy recovery service recycles used tyres for fuel. • Landfill sites have processes for separating out waste in order to recover re-usable materials.  Conclusion  Lafarge uses different means of transport – road, rail and water – to  To generate the cement and concrete that the building industry  help it reduce carbon emissions wherever possible. Lafarge has a  needs, it is necessary to extract raw materials from the earth. In  fleet of road vehicles for transporting bulk cement. It has modernised  order to minimise the impact its activities have on the environment  the fleet to increase the loads each tanker can carry in order to  and create a sustainable business, Lafarge has put in place  reduce the number of vehicles on the road and reduce emissions. Of  principles and best practices across its integrated supply chain.  its nationwide network of 14 depots, 11 have direct rail access. More than one million tonnes of cement a year is moved by rail, more than  By focusing on re-use, recycling and reducing emissions in every  any other company. This removes hundreds of thousands of vehicles  stage, from initial planning of a quarry, to final restoration of the  off the roads each year, reducing congestion, pollution and CO2  land, Lafarge is maintaining a sound business whilst respecting  emissions. Lafarge is also an expert in transporting by water.  the environment and supporting local communities.  One important area of added value for customers is through  Lafarge continues to be heavily involved in restoration projects  Lafarge’s Construction Solutions and Contracting services. Its  such as the newly completed Chalk Grassland project in Kent  technical sales people, along with IT, purchasing and customer  which has restored 40 hectares of grassland for sheep grazing. It  service teams, provide ongoing support and advice for customers:  is also in partnership with the RSPB on a prospective project at  • Lafarge Contracting specialises in providing asphalt-based  the Dunbar Works in Scotland, where the quarry site is being  solutions for surfacing projects. These might be as wide-  transformed into a nature reserve.  ranging as car parks, race tracks, bus lanes, housing developments and airport runways. • Construction Solutions uses all Lafarge’s expertise, from provides all the expertise and materials to take a project from initial design, through production, to finished installation in one combined service. Lafarge continues to demonstrate its innovation and sustainability in the tertiary sector. As part of its sustainability plans, Lafarge  example of each from the case study. (2 marks) 2. Describe two ways in which Lafarge is acting sustainably. (4 marks) 3. Analyse how Lafarge uses its supply chain to help add value. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate the extent to which Lafarge’s investment in researching and developing sustainable practices benefits  Exam-style questions  aggregates to cement, to offer a ‘one-stop-shop’ service. This  1. State the three main sectors of industry and give one  the business, its customers and society. (8 marks)  goes beyond simply managing or restoring its extraction sites.  Lafarge UK | Developing a sustainable supply chain to add value  51  