LOGICA  29/8/12  10:30  Page 4  The make-up of society is also changing. The UK has an older and more diverse society with people from many different backgrounds and cultures. A diverse workforce brings together people with different skills and competencies. Diversity is therefore a focus of Logica’s HR strategy. Logica competes with many other firms for a limited pool of highly talented individuals with good IT and numerical skills. To increase this pool of talent, Logica aims to increase the number of females in its workforce. Within the IT industry, females only account for an average of 16% of the graduates in Computer Science/IT. Logica understands that increasing the number of females in its workforce will bring different strengths. Logica has been heavily Logica was selected by BAE Systems, the global defence and  involved in driving equality within the workplace. It has supported  security company, to provide a Human Resources outsourcing  the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs). This is a  service for its employees within the UK. Logica works with BAE  partnership initiative of the United Nations. It has joined 267  to increase the effectiveness of its systems and to enhance the  nations across the world in order to improve gender equality. This  efficiency of its operations. This improves how BAE engages with  has helped to empower women within the workplace and the  its employees to maximise their potential. This also helps BAE  community. To do this they have created a Women’s Mentoring  to reduce its costs and focus on growth.  Programme aimed at supporting women in their career development. This will ensure that more women rise through the  The recession in the UK has also heightened the need for the  ranks into positions of senior management.  government to cut spending. One example of this is the government’s commitment to achieving savings through the better  Another way that Logica is addressing this issue is by supporting  use of its technologies. As a result Logica has been awarded a  IT clubs in local schools near Logica’s offices across the UK.  10-year outsourcing contract with the Serious Organised Crime  These clubs promote the importance of IT and demonstrate the  Agency. During this contract Logica will manage the Agency’s  variety of exciting career opportunities available within the industry,  information and communication technologies and related services.  particularly for young women.  This creates efficiencies by bringing together data centres and networks, whilst helping the Agency to exploit intelligence and  By offering a range of different routes into the business and  case management more effectively through an integrated system.  making education more affordable, Logica is able to provide an exciting and desirable option for career development.  Similarly, Logica’s services have helped Transport Scotland to put together the largest ticketing scheme in the world. This has involved the installation of new electronic ticket machines on 7,000 buses and 200 bus operator sites. The system processes over 12 million journeys every month and delivers cost-savings in terms of employee time.  Social factors Social factors reflect the constant change in society’s interests, beliefs and actions. There are now different working patterns available which allow men and women to balance work and life commitments better. New technology is driving faster and more integrated forms of communication - 25 years ago the mobile phone was just an evolving concept; the personal computer and internet were just starting to make an impact. 54  www.thetimes100.co.uk  