LOGICA  29/8/12  10:30  Page 5  www.logica.co.uk  Logica’s technology supports its clients in many ways but to do this it needs to be able to offer a dynamic and innovative working environment for its highly skilled employees from diverse backgrounds. Logica’s people are key to the technologies that it provides, as employees need to have both the IT skills and an innovative mindset. As an example, graduates within the business may be involved in any part of the organisation, from business consultancy, systems design and development and implementation, to testing the support of new technologies, training or applications management.  Conclusion Technological factors  The external environment in which businesses operate changes very quickly. Political, economic, social and technological changes  The speed of technological advances means that existing electronic  all put pressure on organisations. Logica is a global business that  equipment, IT processes and systems will quickly become dated. To  provides innovative solutions in data and systems management for  remain competitive a business must ensure that its processes and  its clients, helping their organisations to respond to external  systems support innovation and creativity for itself and its  factors. The nature of the work that Logica can offer an employee  customers. Logica has embraced recent advances in technology to  is both challenging and stimulating.  offer its clients the most advanced and sustainable services possible. An example of this is the use of ‘cloud’ technology. Cloud  By monitoring and auditing its own external environment, Logica  technology allows companies to access and buy into data storage  has also been able to adapt its business to maximise efficiency  or software ‘on demand’ through the internet. It enables companies  and exploit opportunities. This has been done through adjusting  to access a shared infrastructure. This eliminates the need for firms  its service offering to utilise advancements in technology and drive  to buy software for every staff member or support a server to store  improvements to IT services for clients.  company data and pay for staff to maintain it. This in turn reduces waste in terms of both time and money and can help a business to  In addition, Logica has been proactive in dealing with the political  become more competitive by unlocking capital. This capital can  and social influences that have affected the educational landscape.  then be invested in other areas.  It now offers a variety of entry routes into the business, such as apprenticeships, sponsored degrees and graduate programmes.  Logica has also worked with the UK police force to develop the  The business has created long-term career development  Police National Database. This is the most secure national police  opportunities for young people. Logica is also actively addressing  system developed to date and only authorised and vetted users  the shortage of females within IT. 28% of its recent intake of  will have access to the system. It will make a big difference to  graduates were female. This is a significant improvement on the  policing in the UK as all police forces will now have easy access to  industry average of just 16%. Logica hopes to increase this further  key information from forces around the country. The system will  through its IT clubs in schools, which further promote the exciting  make a real difference in protecting people in society.  and varied career opportunities available within the industry.  Technology can also help businesses to meet the issues of are keen to reduce waste and be more energy-efficient. Using more efficient IT systems can help reduce waste, recycle more or cut carbon emissions. For example Logica has created innovative software for Ford which monitors vehicle emissions. If drivers behave in an environmentally efficient way, they may benefit from fuel discounts. Systems like this help businesses save money  1. Describe the four elements of a PEST analysis. (2 marks) 2. Give four examples of other external factors not featured in the case study. (4 marks) 3. Analyse how social influences have changed the attitudes and approaches of employers towards employees. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate how the external environment influences the  Exam-style questions  sustainability. Sustainability is now a high priority and businesses  decisions that businesses make. (8 marks)  through reduced fuel consumption whilst also reducing emissions. Logica | Using skills to respond to the external environment  55  