NESTLE  29/8/12  10:30  Page 5  www.nestle.co.uk  improves the growers’ levels of income and helps to secure the  • Stakeholder convenings, held in various countries where Nestlé  future growth of communities. Nestlé is also the first food  has operations, communicate its approach and invite feedback  company to join the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and has its  on its Creating Shared Value efforts.  work in Côte d’Ivoire assessed openly and independently.  • The Nestlé Supplier Code establishes the minimum standards that its suppliers, their employees, agents and subcontractors  The Cocoa Plan is an evolving and growing programme. Each  need to meet. This demonstrates how Nestlé is committed to  year more cooperatives of farmers are being added to the plan.  developing responsible practices right through its supply chain.  The plan has also been extended to other countries such as Indonesia, Ghana, Venezuela and Ecuador.  • The Nestlé corporate website contains information on all company policies, principles and activities. • There are dedicated websites to key projects such as the  Communicating with stakeholders  Cocoa Plan. These sites bring together all the detail of the initiative in an easy-to-read and understandable way.  Effective communication with stakeholders is also an important  • This case study aims to help to reveal to young people the  element of responsible business behaviour. For Nestlé, engaging  complexities of global supply chains and how companies such  with stakeholders underpins Creating Shared Value. It enables it to  as Nestlé respond to these issues.  identify emerging issues, shape its responses and continue to drive improvements in its performance. Topics raised by  The Cocoa Plan has led to numerous partnerships with other  stakeholders are discussed with them in a variety of local and  organisations such as the Fair Labor Association and the Red  international forums. These include: nutrition, health and wellness;  Cross/Red Crescent societies. These relationships help Nestlé to  education and access; Nestlé’s role in public policy issues;  fight illegal labour practices. Nestlé also has partnerships with  auditing and disclosure of infant formula marketing practices; and  supply chain organisations and governments which support good  food safety.  agricultural practices. These practices have created benefits for stakeholders across the industry, including consumers, shareholders, farmers and other partners. For example, one partnering initiative with the Co-operative Group is paying for educational packs for schools in the Côte d’Ivoire region.  Conclusion Creating Shared Value has enabled Nestlé to adopt a wider focus to its responsibilities. In doing so, it has been able to bring about a whole series of benefits to stakeholders, whether they are farmers and their communities, shareholders or consumers. The Cocoa Plan is Nestlé’s way of dealing with issues facing cocoa farmers and their communities. This is a long-term process that has created better outcomes for all involved in the cocoa industry. It has enabled Nestlé to support local communities as well as improving both the quality and output of cocoa.  1. Describe what is meant by the supply chain. (2 marks)  For example: • Through Nestlé’s annual reports and Creating Shared Value reports, stakeholders can see where funds are invested, how the company is addressing issues such as environmental performance and the positive impact of Creating Shared  industries. (4 marks) 3. Using examples from the case study, analyse how Nestlé’s Creating Shared Value contributes to its corporate social responsibility activities. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate how the values of an organisation can be used  Exam-style questions  2. Explain the difference between primary and secondary Nestlé engages with stakeholders through a variety of ways.  to benefit the different groups of stakeholders. (8 marks)  Value activities. Nestlé | Creating Shared Value in the supply chain  59  