NESTLE  29/8/12  10:30  Page 2  ENVIRONMENT  Creating Shared Value in the supply chain  Introduction  Nestlé works within the secondary sector of industry, creating and supplying products to customers. It converts raw materials into  Nestlé is the world’s leading nutrition, health and wellness  finished goods for consumers to enjoy. Raw materials used in  company. It employs around 330,000 people and has  many of Nestlé’s products are sourced from the primary sector.  461 factories in 83 countries around the world; almost half of  For example, Nestlé brands such as KIT KAT, AERO® and  these are in developing countries. In the UK, Nestlé employs more  SMARTIES contain cocoa sourced from cocoa farmers around  than 7,000 people across 19 sites. The company is one of the UK  the world.  and Ireland’s major exporters, exporting over £300 million worth of products every year to over 50 countries around the world.  Nestlé works with cocoa farmers in order to help them run profitable farms and eliminate child labour, whilst developing a  Nestlé is a household name within the UK, producing some of  sustainable supply of cocoa for Nestlé products.  Britain’s most popular brands such as KIT KAT®, NESCAFÉ®, SMARTIES®, GO CAT® and SHREDDIES®. Over one billion KIT KATs are produced in the UK every year.  This case study looks at the importance of applying the principles of corporate social responsibility to a business’ activities. It will demonstrate how Nestlé creates shared value within its cocoa  Nestlé has a series of corporate business principles designed to guide the way in which the organisation and its employees  supply chain to enhance the lives of cocoa farmers whilst also improving the quality of its products for consumers.  operate. These principles are at the basis of Nestlé’s culture and aim to protect the trust of its consumers and other stakeholders. The principles and their associated policies are concerned with  Corporate Social Responsibility  activities related to:  In Business Studies curriculum terms, Corporate Social  • consumers  Responsibility (CSR) involves the business taking a broad view of  • human rights and labour practices  its activities, looking beyond profits for shareholders and focusing  • employees  on other stakeholders. A stakeholder is anyone that has an  • suppliers and customers  interest in or may affect the decisions and actions of a business.  • the environment.  Stakeholders can be internal or external to the business. Internal stakeholders include employees and shareholders. External stakeholders include suppliers, customers, the communities in which the business operates and the environment. For companies like Nestlé, which work with suppliers from a range of countries, many in poorer regions of the world, it is becoming increasingly important to take a wider view of its responsibilities. Nestlé believes for a company to be successful in the long term and create value for its shareholders, it must also create value for society. It calls this Creating Shared Value.  56  Curriculum topics covered: • Corporate Social Responsibility • Supply chain • Benefits of responsible behaviour • Stakeholders  