NESTLE  29/8/12  10:30  Page 4  However, it also aims to ensure a sustainable and high quality supply of cocoa for Nestlé in the long-term. Some of the areas it focuses on to achieve this are improved farmer training, buying from cooperatives and paying a premium, and working with certification programmes such as Fairtrade. This creates value through the supply chain, particularly for farmers and their families along the way. The Cocoa Plan has become a key way in which Nestlé is tackling issues facing cocoa farmers as well as their families and communities. Nestlé sources most of its cocoa production from Côte d’Ivoire. Both the quality and quantity of cocoa supplies are in decline. The average cocoa farmer is over 55 years old and so the industry needs to consider where the next generation of cocoa farmers will come from. Many younger people in the region are Nestlé sources materials from thousands of farms, many of them  leaving the countryside to work in cities. As a result there is a  small farmers in poorer rural regions of the world. In many rural  shortage of labour and skills. Ultimately, the aim is to raise the  communities, a lack of investment in infrastructure has a serious  standard of living of cocoa farmers to ensure a new generation of  impact on the quality and quantity of raw materials that Nestlé and  cocoa farmers will take over and benefit.  other companies rely on. Nestlé provides training in order to encourage sustainable production, protect the supply and quality  Benefits of responsible behaviour  of its raw materials and have a positive, long-term impact on the local economy and farmers’ standards of living.  The Cocoa Plan is a clear example of Nestlé Creating Shared Value both for the company and for cocoa farmers, their families and their  Around two-thirds of Nestlé’s worldwide expenditure is on raw  local communities. Through it, Nestlé benefits from ensuring the  materials. Nearly 40% of this goes on three main ingredients: milk,  supply of high-quality and sustainably sourced cocoa for its products.  coffee and cocoa. Cocoa is the main ingredient in chocolate and  It also ensures it supports the cocoa farming community’s  as such is vital to Nestlé. It comes from cocoa beans that grow in  development and meets certified ethical and environmental standards.  a pod on a cocoa tree. Nestlé’s focus on improving supply has delivered benefits in The Nestlé Cocoa Plan was launched in October 2009 in the Côte  many areas:  d’Ivoire, Africa. It is a prime example of Nestlé’s Creating Shared  a) Investing in plant research - By developing higher quality  Value approach to business and involves investment of £67 million  seedlings which produce typically 50%–200% more cocoa, this  between 2010 and 2020, building on £37 million in the 15 years  enables cocoa farmers to grow more and sustain a higher  before the plan. The initiative aims to help cocoa farmers to run  income. Nestlé has set up a Research and Development Centre  profitable farms, respect the environment, have a good quality of  in Abidjan in the Côte d’Ivoire to support the development of  life and give their children a better education.  higher-yielding, disease-tolerant cocoa plantlets. b) Investing in training farmers – Training farmers to understand better crop management techniques and pest management, as well as improving their awareness of child labour issues helps to improve outputs and boosts farmers’ incomes. c) Improving social conditions – Nestlé has set up a partnership with the World Cocoa Foundation to build and repair schools within the cocoa farming regions and support cocoa farmers and their families. This will mean that attending school will become a more attractive and viable option for parents and children and that the risk of child labour will be reduced. d) The Fairtrade and UTZ labels – Crops are certificated under the Fairtrade label. Nestlé pays a premium for its cocoa beans, which  58  www.thetimes100.co.uk  