NETWORK RAIL STUDY  29/8/12  10:31  Page 4  The Graduate Programme helps Network Rail to build the leaders of the future. Graduates control the pace and content of their work so that they can progress at their own rate. They gain key experience on a range of placements and receive regular reviews of their progress and performance. There are opportunities in all engineering disciplines (civil, mechanical and electrical). Trainees work on some of the biggest engineering projects in Europe and get involved in management and decision-making roles in all functional areas.  Development Once trained, Network Rail makes sure that its employees have access to development opportunities. Development is about enhancing relevant skills, qualities and knowledge to give a person The Advanced Apprenticeship Scheme is a three-year programme,  greater competency. People who take development opportunities  designed for young people aged over 17 with at least 4 GCSEs.  can move into more challenging, higher level roles. However, there  Both boys and girls are encouraged to apply. This is the largest  is the risk that a person who has better skills can more easily find  scheme of its type in Britain and allows young people to earn while  another job elsewhere. Network Rail recognises this risk, but  they learn. Apprentices spend a year training with the Royal Navy  knows that it is balanced by the excellent opportunities and  at Europe’s largest engineering training facility at HMS Sultan in  conditions that it offers. The development programmes that it runs  Hampshire. Here they learn both technical and leadership skills.  lead to further nationally recognised qualifications ranging from  A further two years are spent in on-the-job training around Britain,  NVQs and HNCs through to degrees and diplomas. These are all  returning to HMS Sultan for additional courses and learning. At  backed by a university, college or professional body as appropriate.  Network Rail’s own training centres a mixture of classroom learning and job-related experience is given.  Network Rail also offers employees the chance to take part in its Network Rail uses its own expert engineers as trainers. This means  own leadership programme. This is designed to develop  that apprentices gain knowledge from people with direct experience  employees so that they can take on managerial roles. It is held at  of rail issues and projects. By the end of the apprenticeship, young  the Westwood Leadership Development Centre in Coventry, in  people have the knowledge, qualifications and experience to  partnership with the University of Warwick and is available to  become engineers in a number of rail-related areas. These include  employees at all levels of the business. Every year thousands of  track, signals, electrification and overhead lines. In addition to being  Network Rail staff benefit from this course. They develop the skills  paid, apprentices are given accommodation whilst training,  and strategic knowledge to help the company deliver its  subsidised rail travel and generous annual leave.  challenging goals and targets.  62  www.thetimes100.co.uk  