NETWORK RAIL STUDY  29/8/12  10:31  Page 2  PEOPLE  Managing change through training and development  Network Rail faced huge challenges when it took on these  Introduction  responsibilities ten years ago. At the time, the rail network faced a Britain relies on rail. The railway is a vital part of Britain’s economy  number of problems. Trains were late, costs were high and there  and infrastructure. More people travel by rail now than since the  had been a lack of investment in both people and equipment.  1920s, even though there are 50% fewer rail routes now than in  These issues meant that there was low public confidence in the  the 1960s. Every day Network Rail gets three million people to  rail network.  their destinations. It also moves thousands of tonnes of goods around Britain. Rail is a greener and safer mode of transport than  Since then, Network Rail has focused on a sustained programme  car so it is no surprise that passenger numbers have increased by  to bring down costs. New ways of working have reduced costs by  more than 40% in the past ten years. These numbers are  28%, largely due to economies of scale. Track and equipment has  expected to double by 2034.  been renewed and punctuality has risen to over 90%. Major projects have been delivered on time and to budget, leading to  Network Rail is the business responsible for the tracks, bridges  more public confidence in the service. Network Rail has changed  and tunnels that make up the British rail network. These, along  its focus to ‘predict and prevent’ rather than the previous ‘find and  with signalling and level crossings, form the railway’s infrastructure.  fix’. This is both more cost-effective and efficient and helps to  Its responsibility extends to 20,000 miles of track and 40,000  avoid delay or disruption to journeys for passengers. Between  bridges and tunnels. It also runs 18 of Britain’s major rail stations,  2009 and 2014, Network Rail will have invested around £12 billion  from Edinburgh Waverley to London King’s Cross. Network Rail’s  in the rail network. Britain now has the fastest growing network in  job is to keep all of these services running both efficiently and  Europe. This case study examines the role of people in improving  above all safely. Its mission is ‘to provide a safe, reliable and  the rail network and the British economy.  efficient railway fit for the 21st century.’  HR strategy Network Rail invests in people and, in so doing, invests in its future. It is one of Britain’s biggest employers, with 35,000 employees. It offers a broad range of roles, from maintenance and signalling engineers to project managers. There are opportunities in all functional areas. These include specialists in human resources (HR), information technology (IT), finance and customer service. To achieve its work programme Network Rail needs to recruit and retain talented engineers. Its engineers are currently working on some of the most exciting projects in Europe. These include HS2, the new high-speed rail link between the north and south of Britain, and the London Crossrail project. There are also major upgrades to some of the country’s biggest and busiest stations, like London King’s Cross and Birmingham New Street. 60  Curriculum topics covered: • HR strategy • Training • Development • Roles and responsibilities  