NETWORK RAIL STUDY  2/10/12  14:11  Page 5  www.networkrail.co.uk  Katie is a project management assistant. She provides support to the whole team for the day-to-day management of a wide variety of projects. These must run to time and within cost budgets. To maintain quality across projects requires a highly organised and flexible person. Katie’s duties include working with both paper and people. She: • monitors progress and produces programme reports • develops effective ways to manage change • deals with internal and external customers and stakeholders.  Conclusion From a position where public confidence was low, Network Rail has improved rail efficiency and customer satisfaction. Whilst keeping safety as its central focus, it has also invested in the future. Network Rail has dramatically increased the punctuality of its services and aims to continue to improve on this success. Part of this is due to Network Rail’s vision and values, which have been used to underpin  Careers at Network Rail  its training programme. High quality training, from apprenticeships to There are career opportunities at all levels within Network Rail,  Master’s level, makes sure that the business has the best engineers  within all the main functional areas. This means not just  and the best leaders. Its investment in the future is tied up in its  opportunities in engineering, but also in many other disciplines. All  investment in people. It recruits and retains the best people for a  of the jobs benefit from Network Rail’s commitment to excellence  wide range of jobs and roles. It is able to go forward with some of  through its training and development programmes.  the most challenging, but also the most exciting engineering projects in Europe.  Bill is a track maintenance operative. This job is vital to ensure the safety of the public. Bill works to stringent safety guidelines and is committed to carrying out reliable, faultless work. Network Rail has its own in-house maintenance team and provides them with protective clothing and, of course, training. Track maintenance operatives work carefully to maintain safely all the signal, track, power and telecoms equipment across 20,000 miles of track in Britain.  ‘This is a mostly outdoors role; I use both automated and manual tools to carry out general maintenance on the track. This can include anything from lookout duties for the team to highly complex work’.  Bill  1. Describe how Network Rail influences Britain’s economy. (2 marks)  make sure trains run safely and on time. Cho needs to be able to make decisions quickly and calmly. Signallers are responsible for maintaining Network Rail’s high standards with calm and methodical decision-making. Skills required for this job include being able to take the lead, being assertive and being in command of many different situations. Good communication  and development. (4 marks) 3. Analyse the benefits of Network Rail’s Advanced Apprenticeship scheme as a means of developing new recruits. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate the various methods that Network Rail uses  Exam-style questions  2. Explain the similarities and differences between training Cho is a signaller. She operates the signals and points that help  to train and develop its employees. Which do you think are most effective? Explain your answer. (8 marks)  skills are therefore vital. Network Rail | Managing change through training and development  63  