NEW PRIMARK  29/8/12  10:32  Page 5  www.primark.co.uk  Some trade-offs between stakeholder needs are inevitable. CSR does not come free. It involves a real commitment of resources, management time and energy. On the other hand, as studies of the HERproject in other countries have shown, each dollar invested in the health of female employees can yield more than three dollars in business benefits. In addition, the improvements in human well-being are incomparable. Despite criticism of globalisation, business and trade can be a force for good. This is increasingly recognised in the ways that consumers assign values to brands. Primark is making progress in taking on wider responsibilities and devising relevant projects that work on the ground. It has done this with help from NGOs and This demonstrates the principles of the Hawthorne effect theory of  organisations such as BSR. Its approach with the HERproject is  motivation. Theorist Elton Mayo found that factory workers with  not purely about business benefits, but focused on making a  long hours of routine work were motivated by someone taking an  difference to the lives of its supplier workers.  interest in them and their work. Feeling that they mattered as individuals, they experienced a new connection with the job. As a  To date, 4,500 women in Primark’s factories have been trained  result, productivity improved. In a similar way, by focusing on the  under the HERproject in Bangladesh. The project results have  women workers and their health issues, the HERproject is also  shown such benefit that the project is being rolled out to Primark’s  delivering improved motivation. See the HERproject video at  suppliers in China and India. Primark’s ongoing involvement with the  http://www.primark-ethicaltrading.co.uk/ourwork/c/womens_health  women workers in Bangladesh and other supplier countries will help to provide it with a sustainable and ethical business model.  ‘Not only has HERproject given women the knowledge to improve their health behaviour, it has empowered them to seek leadership roles in their jobs and their communities. The peer-to-peer model – with women teaching each other about women’s health – has given them the confidence to go against the grain in regions where the traditional role for women is not as strong.’ Racheal Yeager (BSR HERproject Manager)  Conclusion The industrialised countries of the world benefit from the lower costs of labour in countries such as Bangladesh and India. 1. Describe what is meant by CSR. (2 marks)  questioning its sustainability.  2. Explain the basis for a company undertaking CSR activities. (4 marks) 3. Analyse why the HERproject has been a business success, over and above improving the well-being of the workforce. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate to what extent you think Primark has been able to reconcile the interests of its shareholders and  Exam-style questions  However, more consumers are now asking if this is ethical and  those of the employees of its suppliers. (8 marks)  Primark | Beyond corporate social responsibility  75  