NEW PRIMARK  29/8/12  10:32  Page 3  also to give them the tools to help them take charge of their personal and working lives. These benefits in turn pass on to their families and help to enhance whole communities.  Making CSR happen The HERproject is an initiative started by BSR (Business for Social Responsibility), a non-governmental organisation that works with over 250 companies on environmental, social and human rights. The HERproject has so far helped over 50,000 women in different countries. It has done this through working with companies like  Why Primark embraces CSR  Primark, Primark’s suppliers and local health providers.  As an international business with a global supply chain and a  The HERproject is simple but surprisingly powerful:  growing retail base, Primark believes that business has a  • A small number of female staff in a factory (around 10%) is  responsibility to act and trade ethically and that, by doing so, it can be a force for good. Its business directly contributes to the employment of more than 700,000 workers across three  selected to become health education trainers called ‘peer group educators’. • The local health service provider trains the peer group  continents. Ensuring that their rights are respected is key to its  educators, who are then responsible for training the other  continued growth.  women based in the workplace, passing on the message and helping to disseminate what they have learned.  Primark does not own the companies or factories that produce its goods, but it does have a responsibility to the workers in those  The process emphasises mutual help and encouragement. The  factories, to its customers and shareholders, to ensure that its  women trainers are effective because they fully understand the  products are made in good working conditions. The HERproject in  local culture. They are not seen as outsiders imposing strange  Bangladesh is an example of how Primark is actively seeking to  ideas. Instead, the trainers understand why the women may be  make positive changes in the lives of its supplier workforces.  reluctant to seek help with issues that can be sensitive. They can build their self-confidence as well as their practical knowledge.  In Bangladesh, over 50% of the manufacturing workforce is made up of women. The jobs available to women in garment factories give them greater independence and help to reduce poverty.  ‘I didn’t have anyone to tell me how to look after myself, it  However, these women often have little education and low levels  wasn’t taught at school. The trainers told me that many  of literacy as they drop out of education early to help their families.  diseases come from the unpurified water that I was taking from the tap. This water can be the cause of sickness,  They also lack basic knowledge of health, hygiene and nutrition  cholera and diarrhoea. At first my family said to me, how do  and an understanding of how a woman’s body works. Poor  you know this stuff? You work in a garments factory! I told  hygiene often causes persistent and painful infections. Childbirth is  them it’s what I have learnt from the HERproject. When I  particularly hazardous and post-birth complications are common.  began to give them advice they started to get interested in  There is little understanding of the symptoms of sexually  the project. Everyone I have told now boils their water and  transmitted diseases (including HIV) or the means of preventing  they don’t suffer like before.’  transmission. Far more women than men are malnourished and  Umme Habiba (garment worker)  many women suffer from anaemia. These issues, often combined with a lack of access to qualified medical advice, mean that the female workforce is particularly vulnerable.  The HERproject is also helping others not directly involved in the project. Outside the workshops informal learning continues.  The HERproject uses education as the key tool against all these  Women build supportive relationships and talk to each other out of  interrelated problems. The programme aims not only to improve  work. This is reinforced by the project helping to set up factory  the health of female workers through training and education, but  clinics and creating vital referral links to local hospitals.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  73  