NEW PRIMARK  2/10/12  14:14  Page 4  Mrs Kaniz Fatema is the managing director of a medium-sized factory in Dhaka, Bangladesh. When the HERproject was introduced to her factory a year ago, she was unconvinced, viewing it as ‘just another project’. However, just one year later her view has been transformed. Women's health is now high on her agenda. A healthier workforce is literally paying dividends. Absenteeism and labour turnover are down by a startling 50%. Productivity is up and even internal staff communication is more effective. Mrs Kaniz Fatema now employs a female doctor and has set up a scheme to provide sanitary napkins to her female workers, helping to embed a new culture within the factory and allowing health education in the factory to continue after the project ends.  ‘HERproject has made a real difference in my factory. The workers have increased their productivity as they are now looking after themselves better. I have become a lot closer to my female workers. I have also told other factory Selina Kamal is a factory quality inspector and a peer educator for HERproject. Through her own training she is now more aware of the importance of cleanliness for herself and her children. They all now drink purified water and eat more vegetables. She has  managers about the success of the project at our factory. The male workers are now asking when we will start a similar project for them.’ Mrs Kaniz Fatema (factory manager)  already helped a friend, Shilpi, who is a school teacher.  ‘I came to Selina after I had two miscarriages and irregular  Other benefits are harder to measure but are increasingly recognised  periods. Selina advised me to go the doctor as she knew  by the factory managers. Getting women to communicate effectively  something must be wrong. The doctor prescribed me  on health matters builds trust and confidence. This feeds back into  medication for my problem.’  better communication with supervisors and managers. This, in turn,  Shilpi (teacher)  leads to improved teamwork and the motivation to accept more responsibility and leadership roles in the community.  The value of the HERproject Improving the health of women workers in Bangladesh and  ‘Workers now stay longer and are more productive. The  helping to empower and educate the female workforce is an  HERproject has also helped my relationship with the women  important ethical goal in its own right. The benefits to communities  workers. They are not so shy to talk to me anymore. If there  can also be seen. Over time, initiatives like this can support key  are problems, I now hear about them.’  issues such as reducing infant mortality.  Mr Riaz (factory manager)  Factories in Bangladesh taking part in HERprojects have seen healthy returns on the money invested by Primark in the programme. This has been achieved through improvements in productivity, a more stable workforce, lower absenteeism, decreased labour turnover, improved quality and a reduction in housekeeping costs. As an example, the managing director of one factory in Bangladesh found that absenteeism in the factory fell by 55% during the first six months of the HERproject. Turnover of female workers dropped from over 50% to around 12%. 74  www.thetimes100.co.uk  