NEW PRIMARK  29/8/12  10:32  Page 2  ENVIRONMENT  Beyond corporate social responsibility  Primark has initiated a programme of activities which supports its  Introduction  corporate social responsibility (CSR) stance and ensures that its Primark is a subsidiary company of the ABF (Associated British  trading meets the company’s values and ethical standards.  Foods) Group. The company was launched in 1969 in Ireland trading  Underpinning its programme of activities is Primark’s Code of  as Penny's. By 2000, there were over 100 stores across Britain and  Conduct which ensures that all workers making its products are  Ireland. By 2012 Primark had 238 branches across the UK, Ireland  treated decently, paid a fair wage and work in good working  and Europe. Primark has become distinctive for offering unbeatable  conditions. For more information please visit  value while never losing its innovative, fashion-driven edge.  www.primark-ethicaltrade.co.uk  Like many retail fashion businesses, Primark does not manufacture  This case study looks at Primark’s involvement in the HERproject  goods itself. Its expertise lies in understanding its customers and  (Health Enables Returns) which is raising awareness and delivering  working with its suppliers to produce goods to Primark’s  healthcare education to female workers in supplier countries.  specification. It then gets the right goods to the right places at the right prices. Its profitability depends on sheer volume of sales.  What is CSR?  Primark's value-for-money prices rely on low costs. These are achieved in part through economies of scale and efficient distribution.  Businesses need to acknowledge and respond to factors in their environment, for example, changes in available workforce or the  Primark’s products are mainly sourced from suppliers in Europe  business’ impact on its local communities. Corporate social  and Asia. Its key sourcing countries are China, India, Bangladesh  responsibility represents the responsibility that a business has  and Turkey. Putting the manufacturing of garments into these  towards all its stakeholders, not just to owners or shareholders,  countries creates jobs. These are often at better rates of pay than  to deal with their needs fairly.  other types of work on offer, improving overall standards of living. Internal stakeholders include shareholders and employees. Shareholders want a return on their capital and this depends on making a profit. That in turn means by adding value. Employees want job security, good pay and conditions and job satisfaction. External stakeholders include customers, suppliers, non-governmental organisations, workers and the local communities where products are made. All of these have different needs. An organisation therefore needs to be able to respond and demonstrate responsibility in different ways. This might include activities as wide-ranging as encouraging employees to volunteer in community projects; sponsoring and supporting charity work; or contributing time and money to improving its environmental impact.  72  Curriculum topics covered: • Corporate social responsibility • Business ethics • Stakeholders • Supply chain  