OPITO/CIPS STUDY  29/8/12  10:31  Page 5  www.opito.com www.cips.org  Graeme is a group procurement and supply chain manager with over 25 years experience in the industry. With an engineering  ‘Purchasing and supply is a powerful and highly  background, he did not originally consider purchasing and supply  responsible role, dealing with high value contracts. The  as a career but got a taste for the challenges of the procurement  real satisfaction I get is from seeing what I do make a  role when he spent six months in the job as part of his degree.  huge difference. I really enjoy my job and see my long term future career in this industry.’  ‘The procurement process in oil and gas is complex, with a key reliance on safety. In addition, some of the materials we use in this industry are highly specialised, which can  Conclusion  mean long lead times for purchase. However, the  Well-managed procurement ensures that supplies of the required  engineers or companies needing the materials expect very  quality are available at the right time, place and cost. Supply chain  quick responses, so management and forecasting to  managers help to:  anticipate their needs is highly important.’  • reduce costs and improve profitability – bulk buying can provide economies of scale  People involved in purchasing need business knowledge and the ability to analyse markets. CIPS provides six levels of qualifications for the procurement and supply profession across the world. All UK qualifications are Ofqual (the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulator) accredited and appear on the Register of Regulated Qualifications. Students may start a CIPS qualification with no entry requirements.  • reduce waste by selecting inputs that generate less waste (and also lower costs) • manage demand, for example, through just-in-time supply • improve cash flow by securing favourable prices and payment terms • improve efficiency by making sure suppliers hit deadlines • improve the competitiveness of the business by seeking out innovative products and services to add value.  Steve is head of global procurement and supply chain  In the oil and gas industry, where safety is a central concern,  management at Prosafe, a leading owner and operator of oil and  effective management of purchasing and supply is a vital role. Its  gas rigs.  procurement managers need to have good people skills, sound common sense, commercial and business skills and the ability to  ‘Procurement is a highly strategic role. The oil and gas  communicate appropriately at all levels. OPITO and CIPS are  industry supports the whole world economy, from the fuel  working together to ensure that the industry has the relevant  in vehicles to plastic paperclips. My company provides oil  training and qualifications programmes to meet the long-term  companies with accommodation vessels which are like  needs of the oil and gas industry.  floating hotels. Deliveries might reach a platform only once a week, so every last detail from wi-fi access and toilet paper to all the operational and engineering requirements has to be in place, at the right time, in the right quantity and quality. Young people may not be aware of how interesting it is to work in purchasing and supply chain roles - there is no “standard day”. I love it and I believe the job I do makes a difference.’ 1. Describe what is meant by procurement. (2 marks) equipment and services and deals with contracts that range in value from £1 million to £60 million. His role includes careful assessment of the effectiveness of each supplier to ensure BP is getting value for money. This is a large responsibility and it may  2. Explain the benefits that effective purchasing and supply brings to a business. (4 marks) 3. Analyse why the selection of suppliers is such an important issue in the oil and gas industry. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate the key skills needed by a good procurement  involve deciding whether or not to change supplier. This is a major  manager. Which of these do you think is most  decision as it carries potential risk to the company and the  important? (8 marks)  Exam-style questions  Muhib is a procurement specialist at BP. He sources both  continuation of its operations. OPITO • CIPS | The importance of sustainable purchasing and supply  67  