OPITO/CIPS STUDY  29/8/12  10:31  Page 3  Procurement managers are also involved in researching suppliers in new markets and developing new and innovative procurement methods to improve effectiveness. They also agree and manage service level agreements (SLAs). An SLA is a contract that specifies standards, timings and payments for the supply along with penalties for missing targets. It sets out the responsibilities and expectations for both the business (the buyer) and its suppliers. A key element of the SLA is ensuring that the price quoted by suppliers will not be subject to change, thus affecting the purchasing budget. Longer term purchaser and supplier relationships can provide  The purchasing and supply role  stability and add value to both parties. The purchaser may be able to get the best possible terms and prices or a supplier may ‘go  Every business, from an NHS hospital to the biggest brands in the  the extra mile’ for the business in an urgent situation. This type of  world such as Coca-Cola or McDonalds, needs supplies.  collaboration builds trust between buyer and supplier, which might  Purchasing may involve the day-to-day necessities like  enable a just-in-time relationship, where both parties hold  photocopier paper, soap and towels for wash rooms or service  minimum stock and so reduce costs.  support for IT equipment. However, the purchasing role also covers high-tech or large scale equipment for major projects such  Purchasing and supply in oil and gas  as the building of an aircraft carrier or the Olympic stadium, as  The oil and gas industry is divided into the ‘upstream’ and  well as the skills required to operate it.  ‘downstream’ operations. Upstream involves exploring for oil and gas and extracting it safely. The downstream part of the industry is  Purchasing and supply roles therefore require high levels of skill.  concerned with refining, distribution and sales. The oil and gas  CIPS is the professional body which aims to promote the highest  industry has very long supply chains. Many companies may be  standards of excellence in purchasing and supply management  involved in supplying the materials, components and services at  across all industries. It provides these through its professional  different stages and across the various processes involved in  qualifications programme, focused training and education and by  extracting, refining and distributing oil and gas. Procurement  rigorous assessment procedures.  becomes even more important in this type of global operation. A company such as BP sources services and supplies from many  Those involved in purchasing and supply are in a position to  different countries. These include mechanical and electrical parts,  consider every stage of a business’ processes, from raw materials  professional services such as project management or legal  to waste management. This ‘helicopter view’ can help a  expertise for drawing up contracts.  procurement manager to spot ways of making efficiencies or opportunities to improve the quality of products or services bought.  Reliability is a crucial factor in supply, both of quality and timing. If  They can see not just internal impacts, but also what is happening  supplies are of poor quality, delivered late or cost more than was  in the external environment and the marketplace. This can help to  agreed, this will affect productivity and profitability. If production is  generate new ideas to add value to the business, identify how it  delayed or faulty products need to be scrapped, this can reduce  can increase competitive advantage or improve sustainability.  profits. Poor quality inputs could also affect the safety of the process – a major consideration in the oil and gas industry.  An example of how vital the role is occurred when BP needed to manage the supply chain of emergency goods following the  For example, to help improve safety and quality of supply, BP is  Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. The  introducing safety performance indicators into contracts of  supply chain team had to source everything from mealworms to  suppliers involved in high risk activities. Suppliers who do not  feed wounded birds, to booms to prevent the oil spreading further,  meet these standards may be removed from contracts. As part of  to dispersant materials to remove the oil. The challenges included  this safety focus, BP is also planning to reduce use of agency staff  finding sufficiently large quantities available quickly as well as trying  in procurement roles and boost its in-house expertise in supply  to keep budgets under control.  chain management.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  65  