OPITO/CIPS STUDY  29/8/12  10:31  Page 4  An important decision for many businesses is whether to carry out a particular part of its process itself (‘make’) or buy in the components or expertise it needs. This decision might depend on, for example, whether the skills and capacity are available in-house; whether there is a need for high security of supply; or whether it is simply cheaper to outsource. For example, an oil company could choose to rent or own an oil platform. If it rents, its costs are limited to the rental period, with repairs and maintenance the responsibility of the owner. Buying outright might cost more initially but the company has the benefit of the asset. However, it also has the issues and costs of maintenance and ultimately, disposal. Purchasing managers work with operational managers to consider these issues and find the most cost-effective and efficient solution for the business.  For example, Shell is working with its existing suppliers to implement the Shell Supplier Principles. These set out the minimum  Sustainable procurement  standards which Shell suppliers need to meet. These include using  Other key factors to consider when choosing a supplier include  impact on the environment and cover health and safety issues.  energy and natural resources as efficiently as possible to minimise  their ability to respond quickly to changing customer needs and how well they can help towards meeting a business’ sustainability  Other aspects of sustainable business include managing waste  goals. CIPS offers a structured online audit process to help  effectively and reducing the company’s carbon footprint. This can  purchasing managers map their organisations’ purchasing  be improved by choosing suppliers who also take their  systems against best practice. This enables them to assess how  responsibilities towards environmental impact seriously. For  energy efficient and sustainable their purchasing processes are.  example, Marks & Spencer made £70 million of efficiency savings during 2010/11. Alongside reductions in waste and packaging and  Sustainable procurement is a high profile matter for businesses  increased energy efficiency, the company is working with suppliers  today. It can help to save money, reduce waste, improve  to reduce carbon emissions in the supply chain by improving  competitiveness and build a business’ reputation. As part of their  efficiency of deliveries.  sustainability programmes, many oil companies have invested in local transportation networks or built schools. They provide jobs  Roles and skills  and by sourcing supplies locally help to develop the local economy. Although engineering and technical roles are crucial in the oil and The global oil industry has a responsibility to the countries in which it operates to manage its operations in as sustainable way as possible. A purchasing manager might want to consider whether the supplier behaves responsibly, for example, adhering to ethical standards or sourcing raw materials in an ethical way.  gas industry, oil companies also require lawyers, accountants, geologists, electricians, plumbers, crane drivers, mechanics, divers and designers. Roles in purchasing and supply cover all levels, from operational such as buyers and store managers, to strategic such as in supply chain analysis or strategic sourcing, so there are opportunities for everyone. Entry levels vary. Many people join oil and gas companies after having worked in other industries. Some young people join the industry straight from school; others after a college or university course. For example, Hannah has a degree in mathematics and economics. ‘I wanted a career that would offer variety and challenge. As a purchasing manager I have both. My job has given me a detailed knowledge of different parts of the oil and gas industry, plus a significant amount of responsibility.’  66  www.thetimes100.co.uk  