OPITO/CIPS STUDY  29/8/12  10:31  Page 2  O P E R AT I O N S  The importance of sustainable purchasing and supply  Purchasing and supply focuses on sourcing, pricing and buying  Introduction  the right things, at the right price and at the right time in order to What would happen if Christmas trees were not available until  deliver a service or product. Effective purchasing can help an  Easter? How would you feel if you tried to buy a coffee at your  organisation to reduce costs, maintain quality and manage the  favourite high street café only to be told they had run out of coffee  levels of risk to its supply chain. The scale or importance of the  beans? Making sure the key components that a business or  item is relative to the level of risk to the business. Missing coffee  service relies on are available when needed is the responsibility of  beans will affect the day’s profits; getting the wrong size of engine  the purchasing role.  for a car could close down the production line.  Purchasing and supply – also known as procurement - may Innovation and creativity  appear to be a ‘hidden’ function in many organisations. In fact, procurement is a highly strategic role, whether the organisation is  Managing supply chain risk  manufacturing or service-orientated, in the public or private sector,  Ethics and sustainability  for profit or not. Procurement is complex. It covers the full supply  Managing demand  chain from contracts (negotiating), procurement (purchasing) and  Reducing all supply chain costs  logistics (storage/distribution).  Increasing complexity  All businesses need inputs in order to be able to operate. These  Right price and quality Right stuff, right time, right place  might be physical inputs, such as raw materials, like engine components for a car manufacturer. They may also be service based, such as specialist engineering consultancy when trialling new technology or distribution services for a high street retailer. It  For the oil and gas industry with its high levels of risk, the  is vital that inputs not only meet the required quality and reliability  Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply (CIPS) is providing  standards, but also that they are competitively priced.  training to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of purchasing and supply. OPITO, the focal point for skills, learning and development in the oil and gas industry, undertook a labour market survey of the industry which identified a sector-wide skills shortage. Oil & Gas UK then undertook a supply chain survey. This showed that there is both a current shortage and a likely future need for purchasing and supply chain specialists for the oil and gas industry. CIPS and OPITO are therefore working together to promote career opportunities and develop specialised training to meet this need. This case study explores the role of purchasing and supply in the oil and gas industry.  64  Curriculum topics covered: • Supply chain • Purchasing and supply • Skills • Sustainability  