PORTAKABIN STUDY  29/8/12  10:32  Page 3  As the leading supplier of modular buildings in the UK, Portakabin  Health and safety legislation  has set itself the goal of being the best company in its industry in relation to health and safety. This includes setting standards for  Companies have overall responsibility for the health and safety of their  contractors (e.g. transport companies and suppliers of components).  employees and others. The responsibility of the company relates to  Portakabin takes its duty of care to employees, customers and  creating and implementing the overall framework, e.g. policies,  visitors very seriously. Strict health and safety policies are in place at  procedures and training which creates a good health and safety culture.  all company sites. Proven safety procedures are used when working on customer sites such as safe driving guidelines. These are issued  However, under the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, employees  to all employees to create benefits all round.  also have responsibilities. Employees’ responsibilities include: • to take reasonable care of their own health and safety • to take reasonable care not to put other people – fellow employees and members of the public – at risk by what they  Contractors  do or do not do in the course of their work • to cooperate with their employer, making sure they understand The business Portakabin  Customers  To carry out risk management effectively a company needs to  Who benefits from health & safety? Employees  and follow the company’s health and safety policies.  have an overall safety management system. Portakabin has a safety management system that includes the following elements: Visitors  • a general statement of intent (commitment to health and safety) • identification of who is responsible for H&S • reporting structure (what H&S reports will be produced, by whom and for whom)  Portakabin has recently achieved OHSAS 18001 certification at its  • arrangements for H&S (the actual details of H&S practice)  York manufacturing site. This is the internationally recognised  • identification of legal requirements and how these are being met  British Standard for Occupational Health and Safety  • objectives and targets (setting the internal standards to be achieved)  Management Systems.  • monitoring and measuring (e.g. recording incidents to check  To achieve the certificate Portakabin was required to demonstrate  • periodic review for continual improvement (e.g. recording  objectives are met) that it complied with a specific set of criteria and standards.  incidents/accidents to check incidents are closed).  Requirement  Portakabin response  Implementation of an occupational health and safety management  Documented procedures for consulting and communicating with employees,  programme  customers and others about health and safety aspects and issues  Risk policies where risks are regularly assessed and controls are in place  Risks and hazards are regularly assessed and controls are put in place to  to remove or limit risks  remove or limit hazard exposure therefore reducing the risk factors as far as reasonably practicable. For example, safe work instructions, risk assessments and the requirement to wear PPE such as safety glasses, gloves, helmets and safety clothing when welding or working with chemicals  Guidelines and structures setting out responsibilities for health  Detailed procedures, risk registers that identify significant risk to others and  and safety  clear operating procedures (e.g. design elements, manufacturing risks for assembly and loading and unloading of the finished building)  Measuring and monitoring of health and safety understanding and  Encouragement of reporting of accidents, incidents and near-misses by  performance to ensure continual improvement  every employee for assessment, trend analysis and any further corrective action plan  www.thetimes100.co.uk  69  