PORTAKABIN STUDY  2/10/12  14:13  Page 5  www.portakabin.co.uk  c. Training. H&S training for new employees is initially carried out during an induction programme. This covers all company procedures that directly affect the new employee and establishes a strong health and safety awareness. Existing employees regularly receive update training. This includes training where: • there are modifications to new or existing machinery and equipment • an employee changes job role or position • people are working with hazardous substances. This is referred to as COSHH (Control of Substances Hazardous to Health) training.  Accidents caused by injury at work potentially create substantial losses to a business and are de-motivating to the workforce. In the UK injuries that cause an employee to be away from work for more than seven days must be reported online to the Health and Safety Executive (a government H&S body) within 15 days. This  Employees also receive training in handling materials and equipment (set out in Manual Handling Regulations).  requirement is set out under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations (RIDDOR). The accident incident rate for Portakabin under RIDDOR is 37.7% less than the  d. Measuring and monitoring. Portakabin regularly carries out checks to make sure that its health and safety practice is continually improving. It has a number of measures in place to record its health and safety performance. These include the analysis of accident reports. The company has an ‘aim for zero’ approach to accidents. Another key indicator is the number of working days lost. Figures for accidents and working days lost  average in the construction industry. Portakabin demonstrates its commitment to improving health and safety in its recently launched ‘Aim for Zero’ campaign. This focuses on the behaviours required to achieve zero incidents and accidents.  Conclusion  due to accidents are constantly monitored. This makes sure that  Health and safety delivers many business benefits to Portakabin.  the company is alert to negative trends and patterns. These are  As a family company the heart of the Portakabin business lies in a  immediately investigated.  motivated group of employees working together to build strong communities. Focus on H&S by the company and its employees  Business benefits of health and safety focus  demonstrates a shared commitment to each other. This positively  Careful attention to health and safety adds value to a company  The central aim of a commercial business is to produce valued  and its products. Having a strong health and safety record  products at a profit. Portakabin is able to concentrate on  enhances brand image. It also means that the company is able to  producing its high quality modular buildings, knowing that it has  deliver the right products at the right time with the minimum of  effective risk management in place. A strong focus on health and  delay and safely. This is vital in the highly competitive construction  safety not only enhances customer satisfaction and loyalty but  industry. The overall impact of these benefits is to make  also strengthens the image of the brand.  affects relationships with customers and other stakeholders.  Portakabin a supplier of choice because it provides the company with a competitive edge over rivals.  schools. They seek to work with suppliers who have the same concerns for health and safety as they do. Portakabin has therefore been able to build very strong relationships with regular customers. The esteem in which the company is held by customers impacts positively on employee motivation. For the company the strong health and safety record substantially reduces downtime (i.e. time lost to inactivity) and associated costs and  safety benefits a business. (2 marks) 2. Explain how health and safety legislation affects a company and its employees. (4 marks) 3. Analyse three ways of implementing health and safety at Portakabin and explain why they are important. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate the business benefits that Portakabin  Exam-style questions  Portakabin customers include businesses, health authorities and  1. Describe how having a positive approach to health and  achieves from its clear focus on health and safety. (8 marks)  creates a safe culture.  Portakabin | Adding value through health and safety  71  