PORTAKABIN STUDY  29/8/12  10:32  Page 4  Risk identification and management of significant risk  Continual measuring and monitoring through auditing and management reviews  Implementation includes key roles with clear responsibility for managing H&S  Risk H&S policy  Organisational structure; training specific to the role  One of the most important parts of the safety management system at Portakabin is the identification of where responsibility for H&S lies. Portakabin has put in place comprehensive documentation that clearly shows what employees are responsible for: • Taking care of their own health and safety and that of fellow employees. • Understanding the health and safety policy and carrying out their work safely. • Ensuring that all protective equipment is properly used and looked after. • Reporting any accidents/incidents or near-misses which might lead to injury. • Using the correct tools and equipment in line with training and instructions. • Co-operating with any investigation designed to improve health and safety. • Setting a personal example when visiting the workplace or sites  a. Risk policy. An effective policy should provide clear outlines of where a company and its people stand in relation to a policy area. It should be widely communicated and understood by all. It starts out with a ‘statement of intent’. This sets out that Portakabin aims to achieve ‘the prevention of injury and ill health and the promotion of the health and well-being of all employees’. Other aspects of the policy are: • To achieve continuous improvement of standards by annually reviewing policies, procedures and safe systems of working and setting clear objectives and targets. • For all employees to take ownership of health and safety. This should be their first consideration in everything they do. • Having an ‘open door’ policy to reporting health and safety issues and concerns. • Encouraging reporting of accident, incident and near-misses.  by abiding by local rules and wearing appropriate protective equipment.  b. Risk identification. Companies assess all health and safety  • Promoting the company’s commitment to H&S at all levels.  risks which are documented as part of a wider risk register. Safety  • Knowing emergency procedures at the location where working.  procedures are then put in place to reduce or limit these risks. The risk register and safety procedures are continually updated.  Appropriate training is given depending on the individual person’s role. For example, a director will have training in legal duties and responsibilities; an operative will have training specific to the role for example, manual handling training. Portakabin employs fulltime H&S professionals who are qualified at degree or diploma level specifically in health and safety.  Implementing health and safety Implementation means putting something into practice. Portakabin has a commitment to health and safety which goes beyond simply meeting minimal legal requirements. This is demonstrated through the achievement of the OHSAS 18001 Standard. 70  www.thetimes100.co.uk  