PORTAKABIN STUDY  29/8/12  10:32  Page 2  O P E R AT I O N S  Adding value through health and safety  Introduction  the process. For example, there are 90% fewer vehicle movements to site in modular construction when compared with  Adding value to a product involves making it more desirable and  traditional construction methods.  better for the final consumer. Ways of adding value to a product or service include improved design and functionality. For many  The overall responsibility for health and safety in a company rests  products one of the most important ways of adding value is  with the Board of Directors. They ensure that effective H&S  through health and safety (H&S). This is particularly true in the  policies and practices are in place in the company and that they  construction industry where customers, employees and the wider  demonstrate a commitment to health and safety being promoted.  public expect buildings to be safe as well as attractive.  However, health and safety is also the responsibility of everyone who works for a company. Training is vital to ensure that everyone  Portakabin is part of the Shepherd Group. This is a family  understands what is expected of them.  company which preserves all the benefits of family values. These benefits include caring for employees, valuing the communities  Often the importance of health and safety and how it is achieved  to which it supplies modular buildings, as well as the local  can be overlooked when analysing business practices. This case  community in York where the company is based.  study explains in detail how Portakabin implements health and safety policy and highlights the benefits this brings to the business.  The Portakabin brand is the most widely recognised brand in modular construction in the UK. Portakabin modular buildings provide high quality working environments for many other  The importance of health and safety at work  businesses and organisations, for example, office buildings and schools through to hospitals and hospitality suites.  Focusing on health and safety protects employees in every activity that they carry out. Health and safety also protects customers and the  Health and safety policies form a key component of the Portakabin  wider public as well as contractors working for a company. Operating  Corporate Social Responsibility document and are an integral part  primarily in the European market Portakabin needs to take account of  of the business where it is actively promoted through a diverse  both UK and European Union health and safety legislation. The  working culture. Portakabin not only constructs and sells new  construction industry has its own additional regulations covering  modular buildings but also hires out buildings, for example, when  aspects of design and management and safe working practices.  a school needs interim accommodation quickly. Therefore, health and safety is a key consideration in each of these situations, especially in relation to a safe environment for children to work and play in throughout the school day. Modular building is at least 37.7% safer than traditional construction methods. Modular buildings are produced in a factory and then assembled at the construction site. The materials are relatively safe to transport. They can be assembled quickly using standard procedures and checks, reducing risk at every stage of 68  Curriculum topics covered: • Importance of H&S • H&S legislation • Implementing H&S • Business benefits of H&S  