Sheffield Forgemasters  29/8/12  10:33  Page 2  PEOPLE  Apprenticeship training within the steel industry  The scheme has an excellent reputation. It received the Large  Introduction  Employer of the Year award at the 2011 National Apprenticeship Sheffield Forgemasters International Ltd (SFIL) is a steel producer  Awards. SFIL also features as one of the top 100 apprenticeship  and engineering company. Based in South Yorkshire, the heartland  employers in the UK.  of traditional steel production, the company has six subsidiaries, including operations in America and Europe. It is one of the  It is proving attractive for many young people. As Dan, a 20-year-  biggest private sector employers in the area. The company  old apprentice, states:  manufactures bespoke heavy steel castings and forgings. SFIL specialises in providing high quality total engineering packages for its customers. It supplies businesses in many industrial sectors,  ‘I chose this scheme because SFIL has a really good  with customers in the defence, nuclear, oil and gas exploration,  reputation in my local area and I knew this could lead to a  power generation, marine and construction industries.  job for life.’  Engineering is a highly skilled and specialised profession so SFIL needs well-trained employees. SFIL offers employees industry-  This case study looks in more detail at SFIL’s apprenticeship  leading training courses that are tailored to its own needs. It has  programme. It draws on the experiences of three current  been running a highly acclaimed apprenticeship programme since  apprentices: Dan, Kurt and Rebecca. It also considers the broader  2005. The company invests £1 million a year into this programme.  training challenge for a modern engineering business such as SFIL.  It allows the company to supply its next generation of skilled workers, trained to its own high standards. Apprentices will form the future backbone of the business. Some apprentices have progressed to supervisory and managerial positions. As Graham Honeyman, SFIL’s chief executive, explains:  ‘Our commitment to apprenticeships is evidenced by them gaining permanent positions and rewarding salaries from day one.’  Applicants to the programme are usually aged between 16 and 24 years old. This allows SFIL to train young people in the ‘Forgemasters Way’ and to benefit from government funding. Apprentices are trained in all areas of the business. They do a variety of jobs during their apprenticeship and experience the many roles needed in steel-making and heavy engineering.  76  Curriculum topics covered: • Workforce planning • Training • Training in action • Benefits of training  