Sheffield Forgemasters  29/8/12  10:33  Page 4  Rebecca, a 23-year-old business and administration apprentice, is supported by other models of training:  ‘I undertake formal training for my NVQ and I get to apply what I learn in the workplace. My training takes place mostly on site. I receive project work set by my tutor, which I complete and have assessed by email. The tutor visits on a regular basis to carry out appraisals of my work. I’ve also been on in-house training courses for things like Microsoft Word and Excel. I have taken a “train the trainer” course to learn how to run training programmes for the company’s own instructors. So I’ve acquired lots of new skills.’  There are several qualifications that apprentices can take depending on their level of education and the job for which they are training. These range from BTEC, City and Guilds and NVQ awards all the way up to doctorate-level degrees.  The importance of training Training is the process of acquiring knowledge and skills. It ensures that workers are better able to perform their jobs. The objectives of training include: • increasing productivity by introducing more effective ways of working • educating employees in the use of new equipment and new methods • making employees more adaptable by providing them with the  Training in action Apprenticeships are designed to provide the foundation for undertaking key roles within many of the company’s divisions. They equip successful school and college leavers with skilled trades. Dan, Kurt and Rebecca work in different parts of the business, but have all been shortlisted for the prestigious Cutlers Award. These awards encourage apprentices to expand their knowledge of industry through travel and reading.  skills to carry out a variety of tasks • increasing job satisfaction and producing a motivated workforce.  Each apprentice is developing different skills, showing the variety of approaches that SFIL provides on its apprenticeships. Apprentices come from a variety of backgrounds with varied  Apprentices at SFIL benefit from both on-the-job and off-the-job  qualifications. Dan says:  training. On-the-job training takes place at SFIL’s premises. Trainees receive support and instruction as they carry out their allocated job roles. Off-the-job training takes place at a college or  ‘I left school with A-levels in Business Studies, General  another learning centre. Dan spends one day a week at college  Studies and PE, so not exactly engineering-related  studying the theory of metallurgy. During the four days of the  subjects, but SFIL has helped me to build up the right  week he is working, he puts this theory into practice. He has, for  skills. I am now on a BTEC level 3 in Materials  example, been trained to use ultrasonics to scan for cracks in the  Engineering, which can eventually lead to a full degree.’  metals and he has now qualified to work on this unsupervised. Kurt’s off-the-job training includes a BTEC level 3 course in manufacturing engineering at a nearby college. This training  Dan enjoys the ‘family’ atmosphere at SFIL. Many SFIL  supports his role working in the furnaces calibrating the  employees have been with the company for years. This means  temperature of the process. Dan and Kurt’s roles are highly skilled  that he can consult colleagues with plenty of experience as he is  and are vital to ensure SFIL’s high quality standards.  working with some of the best people in the industry.  78  www.thetimes100.co.uk  