Sheffield Forgemasters  29/8/12  10:33  Page 5  www.sheffieldforgemasters.com  Rebecca has a different background. She says:  By increasing the skills and knowledge base of apprentices, SFIL is able to handle increasingly complex projects, resulting in stronger order books. Apprentice experiences are varied, but all help to build  ‘Being honest, I didn’t do as well in my GCSEs at school as  a stronger business. Dan, for example, can now be entrusted with  I had wanted. I did beauty therapy at college and worked for  really important aspects of SFIL work, looking for cracks in the  a time in a beauty salon and then after that in a call centre  metal. If any are found, he is part of the team identifying how to  but neither gave me the sort of job satisfaction I wanted. I  correct the problem. This is a really important aspect of SFIL’s work.  joined SFIL on an apprenticeship in business and  It involves working with equipment and materials that cost millions  administration. This might seem different from the traditional  of pounds and are used in critical sectors like the nuclear industry.  view of an apprenticeship in an industrial area but it works in  Products need to be of the highest quality to meet the customers’  a similar way. I work in the engineering forge performing a  standards and to ensure operational safety.  variety of different roles, such as purchasing, as well being the PA to the managing director, which involves setting  Conclusion  meetings, managing spreadsheets and reports.’ Sheffield Forgemasters seeks a competitive advantage through being the best and through innovation to improve its products and In the longer term, each apprentice will aim to gain further qualifications and secure their future at SFIL. Each will be able to carve out a career path that suits them and the business. Kurt is planning to take a foundation degree to increase his theoretical knowledge and experience. Rebecca can see herself moving into a purchasing manager role or even into sales or accounts. The open  processes. The development of its apprentices is an important means of achieving these goals. Through the scheme, it is able to develop people who will form the backbone of the company in the future. They are being equipped with required skills, as identified during workforce planning. Both male and female apprentices are offered the support they need to succeed. Rebecca says:  policy at SFIL means apprentices have many different opportunities.  The benefits of training  ‘Being female in a traditionally male environment is great – I love working with engineers.’  As well as benefiting the apprentices, the apprenticeship programme generates clear business benefits. As well as addressing serious skills challenges, it also helps to: • increase productivity • reduce staff turnover • create loyal employees • produce efficiency gains.  The company continues to invest £1 million a year in its apprenticeship training programme. Apprentices are offered a wide range of progression routes, tailored to both their needs and the needs of the business. Many apprentices progress to obtain further qualifications and develop long-term careers in the highest levels in the organisation.  1. Describe two ways in which SFIL gains by starting apprentices at a young age. (2 marks) difference between ‘on-the-job’ and ‘off-the-job’ training. (4 marks) 3. Analyse the statement by chief executive Graham Honeyman. What do you think he considers to be the key benefits of apprenticeships? (6 marks) 4. Evaluate the different training programmes described.  Exam-style questions  2. Using examples from the case study, explain the  What do you think makes each effective? Give reasons for your answer. (8 marks)  Sheffield Forgemasters International Ltd | Apprenticeship training within the steel industry  79  