Sheffield Forgemasters  29/8/12  10:33  Page 3  Workforce planning Workforce planning is the process of establishing and meeting a company’s labour needs. It needs to take into account the skills as well as the overall number of employees required to conduct the business. It has to consider anticipated future demand as well as current needs. SFIL faces many of the same workforce planning issues as other businesses. It needs to provide staff development, to respond to changes in its external environment and to remain ahead of the competition. SFIL also faces additional challenges due to the highly skilled and specialist nature of its work. SFIL’s workforce planning has to take into account many factors. For example, it needs to understand the local labour market.  candidates are interviewed. This is producing results. According to  Skilled workers may move in or out of the area. It needs to  the local college, the 2011 apprenticeship cohort was the best  consider the wider economy. A global economic downturn may  intake so far. Dan, who started in 2010, explains the process:  reduce demand for its products. Within this ever-changing context, SFIL needs to plan the number of workers it will need in the future. It must assess the skills that these workers will need.  ‘I started my apprenticeship after going through firstly a  By forecasting these future needs of the business, it can produce  group interview, where everyone was really friendly, and  a plan to ensure that it will have trained staff that can deliver what  then an individual one.’  its customers want. SFIL strives to be the best at what it does. To achieve this, the  SFIL is currently training 64 apprentices. This is just under 8% of the  focus of its operations is on quality. It believes in continuous  total workforce. This underscores SFIL’s commitment to training the  improvement and being a leader through innovation in developing  next generation. It will help the company ensure that it has highly  new products and processes. So to succeed, it needs a strong  skilled workers to meet the needs of the business in the future.  skills base. As these are vital features of SFIL’s current and future growth, they must also be built into training programmes. This  The apprenticeship programme has helped SFIL to improve its  focus on quality is a feature of the apprenticeship programme.  skills base. This is vital as it increases the company’s capacity to  Kurt, a 21-year-old apprentice, says:  handle new and complex projects. Graham Honeyman says:  ‘I completed a level 2 foundation course in engineering to  ‘Apprentices have contributed to the organisation's  give me basic skills. I now work in the furnaces, calibrating  success for many years. They are now engaged in refining  the temperature to very strict standards. This heat  work practices and control systems to improve efficiency  treatment phase is a vital part of the manufacturing  and productivity across the operation.’  process and the slightest change in temperature can affect the hardness of the metal. We supply materials to lots of different industries, including the nuclear industry, so our materials must meet the highest quality and safety standards – there is no margin for error.’  Another way that SFIL drives up quality is by taking on only the best people as apprentices. In 2010 there were more than 250 applicants for just 30 apprenticeships. SFIL undertakes a prerecruitment screening exercise to make sure only the best www.thetimes100.co.uk  77  