SYNGENTA STUDY  29/8/12  10:33  Page 5  www.syngenta.com  The Tegra cycle begins when farmers place orders with retailers for quality treated seeds. The seeds are set to grow using Syngenta treatments in seedling trays by nursery franchisees. The seedlings are then passed to transplant franchisees. This type of business uses mechanised equipment to offer final growers seedlings-inthe-field. Finally the rice plants are grown in a carefully controlled regime before harvesting and transport to market. This process ensures that each plant has the optimum chance of healthy growth.  Conclusion Strategies  Syngenta is a creative organisation which combines its resources  A strategy answers the question: how shall we do it? It is an  to many parts of the world. This process brings benefits to  integrated plan that emphasises the chosen route towards one or  Syngenta's customers who enjoy best value for money in the  more objectives. Usually a business will have one central strategy  products that they buy. It also brings benefit to Syngenta's  that is focused on its overriding objective. This is broken down  shareholders who earn attractive rewards for their investment.  of technology, innovation and people skills to provide added value  into separate but linked strategies for each of the main business functions – marketing, operations, human resources and finance.  Syngenta’s world-leading position stems from the knowledge and  Within each of these areas, additional, more detailed plans help to  innovative research that makes it distinctive. Capturing this know-  set out the paths and actions that make the strategy come to life.  how to deliver products that are outstanding in meeting growers' needs is the key challenge for Syngenta.  Syngenta’s strategy puts the farmer at the centre of everything it does and is expressed as ‘integrate, innovate and outperform’.  However, it is also important that Syngenta's values are delivered  Integrated offerings of seeds, seed care and crop protection  through the product. Those values are critical to its big strategic  products are customised to the needs of the grower. Innovation  question: 'How do we increase yields without compromising  through Research and Development (R&D) in plant science  environmental sustainability?' They equally apply to many smaller  delivers a stream of products with patent protection. Thinking like  local questions such as: 'How do we help this small grower  growers and the challenges they face will give Syngenta a  increase yields yet keep within budget?’  competitive advantage, so that it outperforms for the benefit of growers and shareholders alike.  This is where Syngenta’s values really matter and become the foundations of its brand integrity. They are the hidden ingredient in  For example, the cultivation of rice offers a strategic challenge. 90%  its products and are the starting point for the global achievements  of the world's rice is produced in Asia, where it is an essential daily  of thousands of employees and growers.  food for at least two billion people. Most of the crop is produced on smallholdings. The majority of its 200 million growers use traditional, labour-intensive methods, which is a challenge in the face of increasing labour shortages. Syngenta therefore sought to answer yields be improved? How could labour intensity be reduced and food security improved? How could these goals be achieved  (2 marks) 2. Explain how Syngenta's values contribute to its success. (4 marks) 3. ‘Culture does not appear on the balance sheet yet it is  without endangering longer-term sustainability? The Syngenta  an organisation’s greatest asset’. How far might this be  product Tegra provided many of the answers.  true at Syngenta?(6 marks) 4. Syngenta's strategy relies on managers working  Tegra is an integrated solution that applies technological and  together whilst maintaining a departmental focus.  business innovation to each stage of the production process. Its  Evaluate the extent to which teamwork is essential for  target market is rice farmers in the better irrigated lowlands across  meeting stakeholder needs. (8 marks)  Exam-style questions  the following questions: How, at proportionally lower costs, could  1. Describe the difference between aims and objectives.  Asia where relatively plentiful water allows greater yields. Syngenta | Values into vision  83  