SYNGENTA STUDY  29/8/12  10:33  Page 4  The business’ work on developing seeds demonstrates these  companies that had different identities and therefore cultures.  values. Seeds are never standard. Each variety differs in the quality  Syngenta has been working hard to reinforce its chosen core values  of its crop, its resistance to disease and its suitability for different  and make them central to its culture. The theorist Charles Handy  soils and climates. For example, sunflower seeds are a major  identified four main types of culture.  source of vegetable oils used in cooking and food processing. Syngenta has built a portfolio of seeds to meet each significant market and grower need. For instance, it worked with a Spanish vegetable oil producer to develop a seed that yielded healthier oil that is high in unsaturated fats (which are healthier than saturated fats). With high yields and effective disease resistance, Syngenta seeds are now market leaders in many countries.  Handy's culture types (1978): Power culture - where power is concentrated in a leader or top management team. Quite informal and flexible, it allows trusted staff to get on with the job. Role culture - where authority is arranged in a hierarchy and power depends on formal status. Many rules and procedures can make change difficult. Most often seen in large bureaucratic organisations. Task culture - is purpose- and project-driven with leadership based on expertise for the task in hand. Often copes well with rapid change but may lack overall cohesion. Person culture - stresses the individual's right to make decisions with shared rules only for mutual benefit. Effective for professionals and independent workers such as lawyers but may break up as conditions change.  To demonstrate Syngenta’s belief in its people, it has a scheme called the Syngenta Awards. These recognise and celebrate the company's values in action. All staff are actively encouraged to put  How values drive culture  forward relevant stories concerning how they achieved success in a project. Not only are those involved in these stories rewarded at  A company’s values give everything it does relative importance.  a ceremony but they are also shared across the company as a  For example, one company may be driven by costs. Saving  source of ideas and inspiration. It is culture in the making.  money becomes the first consideration when decisions need to be made. Another company may focus on building its reputation.  For example, Humphrey Kiruaye, a trained agricultural advisor, is a  Delighting the customer is then the job of everyone.  Syngenta sales manager in Kenya. As well as marketing improved seeds and crop protection products, he helps local farmers adopt  These are different values and over time they create different  best practice for yields and safety. He helped a farmer build a  business cultures. Culture can be summed up by the phrase 'the  water storage pond for irrigation and showed him how to reduce  way things are done here.' Culture shows itself in different patterns  the amount of water he used without affecting his healthy crops.  of behaviour and different ways of responding to the various  The farm became a teaching centre for local growers and now  stakeholder groups. Behaviours that influence the organisation’s  includes chemical storage and disposal systems, beehives for  culture may seem trivial but are highly symbolic. Does the company  better pollination and fish in the storage pond.  encourage its people to talk to each other, to share ideas and find solutions? Does it recognise and reward good ideas and achievement? Is it aiming to reduce travel costs by using teleconferencing and internet meetings? Is re-cycling a priority? Answers to questions like these can indicate whether it believes in true equality or encourages its people to ‘think outside the box’. Cultures take time to make but once established they are surprisingly powerful and resilient. This has special importance at Syngenta as the business was formed in 2000 from earlier 82  www.thetimes100.co.uk  