SYNGENTA STUDY  29/8/12  10:33  Page 2  S T R AT E G Y  Values into vision  Introduction  Mission and vision  In 2011 the world's population reached 7 billion, compared to just  A business organisation needs a mission or purpose to create a  3.5 billion in 1969. Current estimates suggest that it will reach  sense of direction and effectively allocate resources and make  9 billion by 2050. To feed these extra people and to meet the  decisions. This is conveyed by its aims which express how it adds  demand of increasingly affluent and urban populations, world food  value. Aims help direct resources to the needs of profitable  production will need to approximately double over the coming  markets. They point the way towards the business’ objectives  25 years. Meanwhile there are up to two billion people lacking  and strategy.  food security. Corporate objectives  To make matters worse the effects of global warming, more frequent floods and droughts and changes in temperature could have a negative impact on food production. Whether used for feeding humans or animals, it is plants growing in fields which  Determining  Supporting  provide the majority of our food supply. Syngenta is a company focused on researching and developing crops. In particular, it adds value though the application of plant  Functional objectives Marketing/Operations/Human resources/Finance  science to seeds and crop protection. Operating globally in 90 countries, with over 26,000 employees, it has major facilities in  Aims are only useful if they trigger action. This is why many  the UK, France, Germany, Switzerland, the USA and India.  companies concentrate their aims into a single memorable purpose. Syngenta's purpose is ‘Bringing plant potential to life’.  The company was formed in 2000 by combining the agri-business  This is designed to energise and inspire the Syngenta community  divisions of Zeneca and Novartis. Its UK origins date back to the  which includes all the company's stakeholders – its employees,  1920s when ICI started agricultural research and the production of  customers, shareholders, creditors and suppliers.  farm chemicals. This shared sense of purpose provides the basis for the In 2011 the company’s sales were a record-breaking $13,264  organisation’s key objectives. These are the 'destinations', the major  million (approx. £8,550 million). This provided rewards for  goals that the business intends to fulfil. In a large organisation they  shareholders and funds continued world-class research for the  are broken down into supporting functional objectives. Properly  future. The company's research and development (R&D) spending  co-ordinated, these functional objectives should enable the  is $1,000 million (approx. £650 million) each year. This has led to a  organisation’s corporate objectives to be achieved.  stream of innovative products with which growers can improve their crop yields. Syngenta, through the expertise of its research  Like many major companies, Syngenta condenses its objectives into  and development team, is a world leader in producing seeds. Its  a vision. This is a short statement that paints a picture of where the  work is unique in meeting the global challenge of feeding the ever-  company wants to be in the future. It is designed to co-ordinate and  increasing population from limited resources.  motivate employees to work towards a common goal.  80  Curriculum topics covered: • Mission • Vision • Values • Strategies  