SYNGENTA STUDY  29/8/12  10:33  Page 3  Innovation  Performance Values Health  Intensity  Most sugar (70%) is obtained from sugar cane and Brazil is the dominant producer. While world demand for sugar is rapidly rising  Innovation is the engine that drives Syngenta's success. Ongoing  – up by 45% in 20 years – the industry has modernised little and  innovations add value for customers and give competitive  is largely unmechanised. Syngenta’s vision was to improve the  advantage as competitors find them difficult to copy.  production and planting of sugar cane in order to reduce costs and increase productivity in an ecologically sustainable way.  This requires the Syngenta development teams to take nothing for granted but constantly ask questions, breed creativity and  Syngenta’s product Plene is an example of how Syngenta puts  seize opportunities.  that vision into practice. In Plene, Syngenta has designed a fully integrated system for sugar cane production. This has resulted in  Intensity means passion, energy and commitment to success,  a 15% reduction in grower costs, better working conditions for  always with customers in mind. It is a shift of mindset from 'doing  labourers and reduced soil erosion.  a job' to 'starring in a role'. Syngenta employees use initiative to build teams and develop partnerships.  A range of project teams worked on the realisation of this project. High quality, disease-free seedlings were selected at Syngenta's  Health is a large idea based around vitality and well-being. It  nurseries. These are processed and treated with Syngenta  embraces people, the natural environment and the eco-systems of  technologies. Planting has been mechanised through a  which they are part. The health value affirms growth and  partnership with John Deere, the agricultural machinery  development as it celebrates knowledge and ideas.  manufacturers. This has reduced labour input and increased productivity. The results are a faster germination, greater  Performance is about achievement and quality. Syngenta must  resistance to disease and a more productive harvest.  add value for all of its stakeholders. It seeks profitability by investing in people and research. Effective performance is  Values  achieved through an insistence on high standards of safety and ethics and a determination to uphold all Syngenta’s values.  Every individual has his or her own values – those beliefs that they hold to be most important and which guide their behaviour. This might include always being truthful or understanding what is right or wrong. An organisation’s values demonstrate what the organisation stands for and help to create a set of shared behaviours which distinguish the company from others. Syngenta's values deeply influence everything that the company does. Significantly, its purpose and values not only express its ability to add commercial value but also reflect its beliefs as a human-focused organisation. Syngenta’s values include four key aspects: innovation, intensity, health and performance. www.thetimes100.co.uk  81  