TESCO STUDY  29/8/12  10:34  Page 2  PEOPLE  Using diversity and inclusion to provide better service  Introduction  Tesco works in a competitive market where products, stores, tastes and even the way customers shop are constantly changing.  Tesco is the UK’s leading retailer, serving millions of customers  Tesco needs to be proactive in preparing to face these changes.  every day. It also employs more people than any other company,  This means finding talented people who will be ambassadors for  with over 300,000 employees in the UK. With almost 3,000 stores,  the brand in the communities it serves. Diverse communities mean  Tesco has a presence in every major town and generated revenues  that it needs to recruit and train people who reflect this diversity,  of over £42 billion in 2011/12. Stores range from the convenient  so that all sections of society are included. This case study looks  town centre Metro and Express formats, to larger Extra stores.  at how Tesco benefits by focusing on diversity and inclusion in its  Tesco provides banking, insurance and telecommunications  employment strategies.  services as well as having a strong online presence.  Diversity and inclusion Tesco is a business that puts people first, ensuring its customers and colleagues are at the heart of everything it does.  In the UK we have a diverse society. There are people from many different backgrounds and cultures. There are also changes taking place in the number of men and women in the population. These  ‘Our core purpose is to create value for customers to earn  changes to population are called ‘demographics’. One key  their lifetime loyalty. Our success depends on people: the  demographic is that an increasing number of older people are  people who shop with us and the people who work  working – an ageing workforce. Tesco’s policy is to ensure that its  with us.’  workforce has a balance of different people. It is keen to search for talent wherever it lies. At Tesco, ‘Everyone is welcome’. Tesco  Earning customer loyalty is crucial and Tesco focuses on this by  recognises that every person is different and will bring unique  helping customers in lots of small ways which together can make  talents and experiences to a role.  a big difference. ‘Every little helps’ is more than just a slogan. It describes Tesco’s way of working with all of its stakeholders, and that includes colleagues as well as customers.  ‘Difference can be our strength because talent and diversity are two sides of the same coin. To focus on one while ignoring the other is like trying to run a store with no customers – it just won’t work.'  84  Curriculum topics covered: • Equal opportunities • Diversity • Inclusion • Benefits of a diversity strategy  