TESCO STUDY  29/8/12  10:34  Page 5  www.tesco.com  Former Tesco Chairman Sir David Reid is chairman of the Trustee Board at Whizz-Kidz, a charity that supports and empowers young wheelchair users. Tesco therefore has a strong relationship with the charity. Whizz-Kidz was chosen as Tesco’s Charity of the Year in 2006. Research conducted by Whizz-Kidz showed that many young wheelchair users found it hard to develop adult skills and outlooks, so the charity provides training to help young people become more confident and independent. Tesco is backing a five-year project, launched by Whizz-Kidz and also supported by the National Lottery, to set up a network of clubs for young wheelchair users. The ‘Kidz Unlimited’ project provides a chance for young disabled people to socialise and raise issues that are important to them. It also provides training, work skills, advice and access to work placements.  Conclusion Tesco recognises that the communities it works in are diverse and  Benefits of a diversity strategy Tesco’s diversity strategy brings many benefits to the business. It means, for instance, that Tesco is always aiming to recruit from the widest possible talent pool, helping it find the best person for the job. The workforce will have a better understanding of customer needs as it reflects the same diversity as the customer base. It also opens up new ideas and opportunities that may arise from different cultures. Having a mixture of different age groups within the workforce can also help to raise morale. The mix of young and older people brings a broad range of knowledge, experience and social skills to the company. A diverse workforce is more flexible, since it consists of a wide range of people from all walks of life, all able to work together to deliver the best service in all circumstances. It also leads to better performance and lower costs, since  constantly evolving. In addition, each individual has skills and potential that Tesco can help them to realise. Tesco’s diversity and inclusion strategy ensures that ‘everyone is welcome’ and that systems are in place to help people reach their potential. This strategy helps Tesco find, train and employ the best talent from all parts of society, particularly groups that may otherwise be underrepresented, for instance, young wheelchair users. This strategy helps to create a workforce that reflects the same diversity as is found in society. This means it better reflects Tesco’s customer base. The business wants to attract and keep the best people so it works hard to make Tesco a great place to work. By encouraging employees’ development, Tesco works to ensure all colleagues – wherever they work – can fulfil their potential. A strategy that supports its people and is good for customers is therefore one that is good in helping Tesco to provide better service in a competitive market.  employees are able to offer a variety of expertise that enables jobs to be done effectively, improving productivity and reducing waste.  1. Describe what is meant by diversity and equality. (2 marks)  disabled or disadvantaged groups. Tesco offers an interview  2. Explain which groups are particularly covered by equality laws. (4 marks)  guarantee to candidates from Remploy, Shaw Trust and Whizz-  3. Analyse Tesco’s diversity strategy, explaining why it is  Kidz – three organisations that work with disabled people. This  important to the workforce, the customers and the  guarantee means that where Tesco has a vacancy and any of these groups has a suitable candidate, he or she must be  business. (6 marks) 4. Describe the different network groups and  interviewed. The interview guarantee does not mean a job offer will  organisations that Tesco supports. Evaluate why each  be made, but in many cases applicants from these partners get  is of importance in helping the business be more  the job as they are the best candidate. Tesco also offers work  competitive than its rivals. (8 marks)  Exam-style questions  A key part of the strategy is Tesco’s aim to employ people from  placements to give candidates the experience of working in retail. Tesco | Using diversity and inclusion to provide better service  87  