TESCO STUDY  2/10/12  14:15  Page 3  Tesco has a particular understanding of what is meant by ‘talent’. It believes in recognising the strengths of each individual person, regardless of their background and investing in them to help reach the goals that they set for themselves – being the best they can be. There is a constant hunt for talent.  ‘Talent is about people and we all have a role in talent spotting, recruiting, developing, promoting, moving, rewarding and engaging them’.  Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunities are so central to the workplace that there are laws to ensure fair treatment. For example, it is against the law to make unfair choices against people on grounds of age, race, disability, gender or sexual orientation. This is called discrimination. In addition, managers and personnel teams meet regularly to talk Tesco’s diversity strategy is central to the way it approaches  about who is ready for a move to meet a new challenge or help  recruitment, training and development and is reflected throughout  them develop. This all takes place within a regular annual cycle, so  the objectives of the business. In practice, that means that every  each employee’s objectives and development plans can be  role and every employee at Tesco has a place in something called  regularly reviewed and updated.  the ‘framework for talent’. This framework is used to find and develop talent for the future and has three parts: • talent plans for the business • career plans for individuals • succession plans for jobs. All colleagues set objectives and draw up personal plans for development as part of a regular review process. Every employee has the same opportunity to discuss his or her performance and career and is given the opportunity to get on.  Engaging with diverse groups Tesco has established a number of networks to ensure that it engages with all its people. Its four key networks are: • Out at Tesco. This group represents those with different sexual orientations. It has over 1,000 lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) members and is recognised by other groups as an excellent example of how such networks should operate. • Women in Business. This is the longest established network. There are a number of branches supporting women’s issues, raising the profile of women in the business and supporting them to develop their careers through training, mentoring and career sponsorship. • Tesco Asian Network. This helps to raise the profile of careers at Tesco to Asian groups. It holds two events each year where Asian colleagues are invited to attend to network, share experiences and visit a ‘careers fair’ about opportunities at Tesco. It has inspired a series of ‘parents’ evenings’, which have helped Asian parents to understand the career opportunities available at Tesco and understand the range of jobs their children could enjoy in the business. • ABC Network. This is the most recent network, which builds on an idea raised at an Asian Network event. Its aim is to make Tesco the employer of choice for African, Black British and Caribbean colleagues and to provide training and development opportunities which will enable more black people to reach senior positions within the business.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  85  