TESCO STUDY  29/8/12  10:34  Page 4  Tesco recognises that within each person there is raw talent, ideas and energy. It sees that everyone is an individual who is seeking a good work-life balance and aims to help all employees to be the best that they can be. It encourages the business to create challenging, interesting and flexible opportunities to release this potential at every level of the business, from the shop floor to the boardroom. By ensuring that the best people are in the right jobs, Tesco is able to compete in a highly competitive market. The main strands for Tesco’s diversity strategies are: ‘  ‘Everyone is welcome’  ‘Raising the bar on talent’  We all have talents; we just  As Tesco sees the unique  need the encouragement to  talents of people, it will have  realise potential.  interesting people in interesting jobs.  Tesco also has strong links with many organisations representing disabled people, such as Whizz-Kidz. It also has its own Diversity  Tesco reflects the  It takes risks on talent to  Council. The Council sets the diversity strategy for Tesco. Its goals  communities it serves. It  bring extra skills to the  are to show that Tesco is inclusive, to make everyone welcome and  searches for talent within  business.  to play an active role in the diverse communities it serves. Tesco is  groups that are under-  currently working with disabled colleagues to establish whether  represented.  there is a need for a disability network. The business also works with a number of diversity partners. These partnerships help Tesco  Tesco values difference. It  All are helped to develop and  to build and improve its diversity strategy. These partners are:  welcomes its benefits for  build new and diverse talent.  • Stonewall. Tesco is a ‘Diversity Champion’ member of  itself and its customers.  Stonewall, a charity which exists to ensure equal rights for lesbians and gay men in a society where they can be open,  Tesco brings in talent through  By engaging with its people,  honest and safe at home, at school, at work and in  creative channels to find the  Tesco helps them to engage  the community.  best and most diverse  with its customers.  • EFD (Employers Forum on Disability). EFD is currently working  people.  with Tesco to help it to do a better job for disabled colleagues.  Tesco sets clear objectives  It will also help encourage more disabled people to choose  with expectations of both  Tesco as a great place to work.  performance and potential.  • Opportunity Now. This group offers support for gender equality in business. It is committed to supporting the business to offer opportunities to both men and women. Its key objective is equal treatment of genders but, as it is women who are most often under-represented, this tends to be its focus.  A diversity strategy The importance that Tesco places on diversity is shown by the detail of its strategy. The key aspects are that ‘everyone is welcome’ and the aim is to ‘raise the bar on talent’. Tesco has a dedicated talent and diversity team. This team communicates the diversity strategy throughout the business to ensure that its objectives are reached. 86  www.thetimes100.co.uk  