TNT STUDY  29/8/12  10:34  Page 2  O P E R AT I O N S  Delivering a superior customer experience  Introduction  In-depth research showed that customer satisfaction depended not just on the process of delivering the service, but also on how  The reputation of a business may be affected by what its  the service was carried out. This resulted in TNT adopting a core  customers think and say about its products or services. This is  strategy focused on delivering a quality customer experience. It  driven by the experience of customers when dealing with the  developed a two-year programme to implement and communicate  business. High quality customer service will encourage customers  its Customer Promise to employees and customers.  to become regular or repeat users or purchasers. On the other hand, a poor customer experience may damage a business  In order to achieve the levels of process innovation and continuous  through loss of consumer confidence.  improvement that the customer focus strategy required, TNT also needed to ensure the capabilities of its people were aligned to this,  TNT was founded in Australia in 1946 by Ken Thomas with a single truck. Today, TNT is a global business and the market leader in business-to-business (B2B) express delivery services, delivering up to 150 million items per year. It has the largest individual share of the national market and employs over 10,000 people across the UK and Ireland. TNT operates in the tertiary (or service) sector of the economy which provides widely varying services to other businesses and to consumers. The tertiary sector is the largest sector of the UK economy, ahead of the primary (extraction) and secondary (manufacturing) sectors. In 2008 TNT recognised that the increasing expectations of customers meant the business had to make major changes to ensure it could meet their needs.  particularly in delivering a high quality customer experience. A review of new employees to the company showed that only 10% held qualifications above QCF (Qualifications and Credit Framework) level 2, compared to the industry norm of 52% (as identified by Skills for Logistics Research). This case study examines how TNT’s Customer Promise reflects its core strategy of customer focus and aligns with its corporate values to influence the organisation’s culture.  Why is customer focus so important? Customer service is a series of activities designed to deliver customer satisfaction. The process of providing customer satisfaction is based on an understanding of what customers want and need. Effective businesses aim to anticipate and meet or exceed these needs. It also requires effective communication. A high quality customer experience needs to apply from initial contact through to after-sales care, whether the customer generates a one-off transaction or regular repeat business. There are many different aspects which underpin customer satisfaction in a business. These include: • ease of use – educating customers so that they know how to get the best from the service or product and designing services that are easy to use and access  88  Curriculum topics covered: • Customer focus • Customer satisfaction • Benefits of customer focus • Measuring customer satisfaction  