TNT STUDY  29/8/12  10:34  Page 5  www.tnt.com  High performing teams and depots receive recognition and rewards through TNT’s awards schemes. TNT’s ‘Delivering More’ scheme rewards and recognises those employees who have gone beyond the call of duty. Over 4,000 awards are made each year.  Conclusion Effective customer service involves meeting or exceeding customer needs. However, customer service is not just about what you do for your customers, it also concerns how the service is carried out. Examples of TNT’s training and development programmes include:  TNT monitors and measures performance to ensure its activities  • a foundation degree with Hull College – this is mapped to  are delivering the strategy. For example, it conducts telephone  national qualifications and focuses on the logistics industry.  interviews each week with a sample of customers to review their  This is a great example of workplace learning and bridges the  perceptions of its services and assess levels of customer loyalty.  gap between academic study and work • a foundation degree with Coventry University – this is mapped  Since TNT’s strategy of focusing on the customer experience was  to national qualifications and focuses on management and  set up in 2009, it has delivered strong results:  leadership  • TNT has achieved the highest levels of customer satisfaction in its  • a five-year apprenticeship programme for young people in vehicle maintenance – this ensures that TNT has the skills it needs to keep its fleet up to standard.  market measured on 31 aspects linked to the Customer Promise. • The Customer Promise programme has increased productivity and generated savings overall of almost £660K. • The company achieved its targets in 2010 and 2011 despite  TNT people are recognised in other ways. Employees are encouraged to move between roles to learn more about the company. This form of job enrichment means employees experience  the difficult economic climate. • 100% of new operations employees will have a relevant qualification, making TNT the industry leader.  variety at work and improve their skills in different areas. TNT also offers the opportunity to develop and progress within the company. Around 70% of supervisory roles are filled internally. Graduates who start working for TNT are expected to take on management roles within five years.  1. What is customer service? Give two examples of different aspects of customer service. (2 marks) Promise relates to customer service. (4 marks) 3. Using the TNT website, identify three additional examples of ways in which TNT provides quality customer service. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate how developing its employees enables TNT  Exam-style questions  2. Explain how each of the elements of TNT’s Customer  to benefit its customers. What drawbacks might there be for the organisation? (8 marks)  TNT | Delivering a superior customer experience  91  