TNT STUDY  2/10/12  14:15  Page 4  TNT monitors and reviews regularly all activities relating to the  TNT encourages its people to ‘think on their feet’. They are  customer experience, both internally and externally, to ensure it  expected to seize opportunities and not just meet customer  remains fresh for both customers and employees.  requirements but also exceed them. This is part of the organisation’s entrepreneurial culture. TNT encourages people to  Communicating the promise  make decisions for themselves (based around documented procedures and values), rather than wait to be told what to do.  TNT’s people meet with or talk to customers on a regular basis. They are the public face of the organisation and represent its brand values. They hear first-hand what customers want or like. TNT recognises that its Customer Promise will therefore only be effectively delivered if its employees understand every aspect of the customer relationship. Part of setting up the Customer Promise involved communicating the change both within the organisation and externally to customers: • Employees received a letter from the MD announcing the Customer Promise. TNT also arranged workshops to ensure everyone had the same information. It organised a job shadowing scheme so employees could understand how their roles affected other staff and potentially the customer. Alongside this, various communication tools were used to refresh the messages for all employees. These included a pocket guide, a key ring, posters, an internal magazine and videos on the intranet. • Customers received new literature. These included the MD’s letter, an information pack for new customers and a regular customer magazine, as well as direct mail about the Customer Promise to 300,000 existing, lapsed and prospect customers. TNT also set up a new feedback option on its website for customers to give their views on the service.  This helps to give faster responses to customers. TNT also set up an employee suggestion scheme, called I’dea. Employees can make suggestions for improving working practices and TNT can learn from its people as well as helping them to develop. This is part of its two-way commitment model.  Recognising the people behind the promise Employees are one of the most important resources a service organisation has and TNT’s ability to deliver on its Customer Promise rests in its people. Effective organisations need engaged people who have the skills to deliver the company’s aims and objectives. This needs a two-way commitment. Employees need to be committed to the organisation; the organisation needs to support and reward its employees. TNT recognises the contribution its people make in different ways. First, it invests in developing people, offering a variety of career options from driving to marketing. It carries out a training needs analysis for new employees. This assesses their existing skills and abilities in order to identify the training and development requirements that employees may have in order to carry out their current roles effectively. This also helps them to progress their career within TNT. TNT provides the training people need to do the job (learning the specific skills and knowledge required to work in the TNT way), as well as opportunities for personal development. TNT was one of the first 16 businesses to achieve Investors in People (IiP) status.  A can-do attitude becomes the mentality of TNT’s people, it influences the organisation’s culture which in turn informs all the actions involved in keeping the promises. These actions provide evidence of TNT’s superior customer experience which customers will reward by paying the right price.  This is an independently accredited standard awarded to organisations that demonstrate commitment to people development. Investing in people helps to increase customer satisfaction and leads to more business. TNT’s focus on enhancing people’s wider capabilities as preparation for future roles in the company leads to a ‘win-win’ situation. Employees gain from good jobs with prospects. The organisation gains from employing people who are able to promote its brand values and deliver exceptional service. Developing people helps to ensure the company has the right skills in the workforce to improve performance today and grow the business tomorrow.  90  www.thetimes100.co.uk  