TNT STUDY  29/8/12  10:34  Page 3  • personal relationships – building a rapport with customers to  • supports TNT’s market-leading position  make them feel valued and that their needs are important, so  • helps to retain existing customers and attract new ones  that they develop an attachment to the service  • motivates staff by demonstrating their valuable input  • appropriate payment systems – enabling customers to pay in  • provides a means of differentiating the business.  ways that are convenient to them and at appropriate time, such as on satisfactory completion of service • an effective complaints process – dealing with any problems or  In order to achieve differentiation, TNT has embedded the company’s values - ‘to be a trustworthy, values-based company with a  complaints promptly and making sure customers know of the  reputation for integrity, transparency and compliance’ - into its  outcome  Customer Promise. TNT claims: ‘Actions speak louder than words  • after-sales service – checking that customers have had a satisfactory experience and offering other potentially relevant  and that when we say “Sure we can”, we mean it’. This ‘can-do’ attitude and positive mindset affect all aspects of TNT’s business.  services to extend the customer relationship. The Customer Promise highlights the expertise and positive The various elements of providing a satisfactory customer experience should relate to customer needs. Relevant factors for TNT customers involve: • on-time delivery – TNT aims to deliver all documents, parcels and freight to the customer’s required timescale through its door-to-door integrated air and road network  mindset behind TNT’s strapline ‘Sure we can’. It shows that TNT listens to customers and can add value. For example, TNT promises a ‘friendly voice at the end of the phone’. To ensure this, TNT’s own knowledgeable people deal directly with customers. Its promise ‘to resolve problems promptly’ is demonstrated by how it intercepts and repackages damaged parcels to avoid goods being damaged and customers disappointed.  • 24/7 tracking – TNT’s sophisticated online technology makes it possible for customers to track where their consignments are at any time of day, giving them reassurance  Employees are instructed to be honest with customers – even if there is a problem. This fulfils its promise ‘not to over-promise’. TNT aims  • personal attention – TNT can accommodate specific customer  for its drivers ‘to do you proud’ by training them so there is the same  requirements for safe delivery of unusual or fragile items. For  focus on quality customer service throughout the whole process. Its  example, on one occasion, the company transported a life-  promise ‘to look after you’ is demonstrated in a variety of ways: by  sized fibreglass Friesian cow from Scotland to a farm in  offering a range of delivery options such as door-to-door delivery as  Northern Ireland!  well as online booking which allows customers themselves to reschedule deliveries where necessary to make things easier. Its  The customer experience at TNT  promise ‘to keep our promise’ is upheld by the fact that the standards are set at the top by the managing director and communicated  TNT’s market is highly competitive. In TNT’s market there are at  throughout TNT so everyone is working to the same values.  least 13 direct competitors. TNT’s Customer Promise is designed to deliver a competitive advantage, something that competitors  Other examples of practical changes to improve the customer  will find hard to copy. As well as providing a ‘superior customer  experience included an online ordering service for customer stationery  experience’, the Promise:  and an online invoicing option for those customers who want it.  www.thetimes100.co.uk  89  