UNISON STUDY  29/8/12  10:35  Page 2  PEOPLE  Developing responsiveness through organisational structure  This case study looks at organisational structures and how  Introduction  UNISON’s structure is designed to allow it to make decisions and UNISON is the UK’s biggest public service trade union. It  respond to changes quickly in order to help its members.  represents 1.3 million members who deliver essential services to the public. These are services that protect, enrich and change  The structure of an organisation  lives. Its members work in all areas of public service. They work in hospitals, town halls, universities, colleges, schools, social services and clinics. Most people in the UK rely on these services.  Organisational structure refers to how the workers within a business are organised and how they relate to each other. A visual representation of the structure can be shown in an  There are UNISON branches in all sorts of organisations in the UK. As a trade union, UNISON represents and supports its members in  organisation chart. This shows who has authority over whom and the different roles that workers carry out.  issues at work. It looks after their welfare and campaigns for changes on their behalf. UNISON also has a role in local and national  Director  negotiations and in collective bargaining. This is where UNISON negotiates with employers and groups of employers for all of its  Manager  members collectively. One of its key roles is in campaigning on behalf of members. This could be for changes that will benefit members  Team Leader  Team Leader  such as better wages or working conditions or against policies that threaten members’ jobs. UNISON therefore campaigns against  Supervisor  Supervisor  Supervisor  Supervisor  Operatives  Operatives  Operatives  Operatives  government spending cuts that will have a negative impact on public services and those employed in this sector. UNISON, on behalf of its members, has concentrated its campaign efforts over the past two years on the future of public  Certain organisational structures suit particular types of  services and the challenges that they face from government cuts.  organisations. This will depend on the size of the business, its  Public sector cuts planned by the coalition government in 2012  aims and the way it sees itself (known as its corporate culture or  would mean more than 730,000 public service job cuts.  image). It may also be affected by factors outside of its control (external factors) such as the nature and spread of its customers. Structure is often linked to the type of business. For example, it could be organised by: • product - for instance, a chemical company could be split into paints and plastics • function - for instance, departments of finance, marketing, human resources and operations • geography - this could be by UK region or even internationally e.g. Europe, Asia, America.  92  Curriculum topics covered: • Organisational structures • Culture • Roles and responsibilities • Skills  