UNISON STUDY  29/8/12  10:35  Page 4  • Accountability – who makes decisions and takes responsibility for outcomes.  deliver its operational plan. Personal qualities required also include skills in research, analysis and developing materials as well as  • Communication channels – the way in which messages are  communication and negotiation skills.  passed up, down and across an organisation. It is also vital that the message is spread outside the organisation. For this, UNISON uses cutting-edge communication techniques. At the UNISON Centre for example, there is a media centre, plus television and radio recording facilities.  ‘The best part of my job as an area organiser is supporting members and giving them the skills, tools, knowledge and confidence to stand up for themselves and others. I get a real sense of pride when I am supporting branches and members through difficult times.’  Job roles within a trade union Within most large organisations there are roles at different levels within the hierarchy such as directors, managers, team leaders, supervisors and operatives. UNISON is no different. The qualities and skills needed for these roles are different. For example, those at the top of the hierarchy will have to think more strategically and may need greater leadership skills than those lower down. UNISON’s job roles are specific to the aims of the union.  The regional organiser reports to the regional manager. This role builds and organises branch memberships. Key responsibilities involve supporting and mentoring activists, running regional projects and managing the team. Regional organisers require strategic thinking skills. They will also need to be able to manage resources and teams of people.  National official Typical Regional Organisation Chart (Eastern region)  Regional official  Assistant General Secretary - Regional Management & Governance  Regional Secretary  Area organiser  Area organiser  Local organiser  Local organiser  Local organiser  Local organiser  Members  Members  Members  Members  Corporate Services  Learning and Development  Health  Local Government & Education  Organisation  Private Companies & Police  Corporate Services Team  Learning and Development Team  Health Team  Local Government & Education Team  Organisation Team  Private Companies & Police Team  The local organiser reports to the area level. This post recruits and supports members at a local level. Personal qualities needed  The regional secretary is the senior official in the region. As  include:  regional manager, he or she leads the Regional Management  • problem-solving skills  Team and sits on UNISON’s Senior Management Group (SMG).  • communication skills  The SMG is chaired by the General Secretary. The role here is one  • ability to act on own initiative  of strategic and national development and communication of  • resource management  policies. This person needs leadership qualities to go with the high  • general understanding of issues facing trades unions and  level of responsibility. He or she needs high level problem-solving,  employers.  critical thinking and communication skills. The post holder will typically have worked as a senior manager to develop these skills.  The area organiser reports to the regional level. This post  All roles include the need for some physical skills (such as lifting or  organises work across branches as well as region-wide  ability to travel) but, in accordance with equality policies, these can  campaigns and events. Responsibilities include representing  all be modified for anyone with a disability. Having a disability is no  members in negotiations and claims and helping the region to  bar to employment with UNISON.  94  www.thetimes100.co.uk  