UNISON STUDY  2/10/12  14:16  Page 5  www.unison.org.uk  Conclusion UNISON, as the UK’s largest public service union, has a responsibility to support its members in the face of current challenges. These include massive cuts to public services. This means supporting not just members, but also their families and all those who rely on public services. To meet these aims, UNISON has a clear structure. Within this, there are defined roles and responsibilities at each level. As a person rises through the structure, they are expected to take on more responsibilities. They will also have more authority – the right  Careers and training at UNISON  to make decisions. There is also a clear career path from one level to the next so that organisers can rise through the organisation.  At the local level, a recent addition has been the role of ‘fighting fund organisers’. Faced with huge cuts to public services, UNISON is recruiting over 100 such fighting fund organisers.  ‘UNISON makes a valuable contribution and difference to the lives of working people, often at the most difficult times  These people need to have good analytical and presentation skills.  of their professional lives. I find it rewarding to work for an  They will undertake an induction training programme which  organisation whose aims I share and for whom I am  prepares them to go into workplaces and recruit members. These  prepared to go the extra mile.’  fighting fund organisers may come from a range of different backgrounds and are central in taking the union in new directions. Their jobs will include using new methods such as social  UNISON is keen to provide a good working environment, but also  networking to keep in touch with members. New roles such as  to face the challenge of supporting members. Its Investors in  this are helping UNISON to change its structure to focus more at  People Award shows its commitment to quality.  the local level. This makes the organisation more decentralised. UNISON is also building clear career paths for organisers. Local fighting fund organisers will recruit members, mentor stewards and help branches to grow. To step up to area level management means more responsibility. Area officials provide representation for members. They also carry out bargaining with employers. These two activities and experience provide a good launching pad for a regional role. At regional level, jobs involve responsibility for large-scale negotiations, leading projects and managing teams of organisers.  ‘There are always new challenges, sometimes outside my comfort zone, but training and support is given for this. It makes me feel good about myself when I have tried  UNISON. (2 marks) 2. Explain the difference between what is meant by ‘authority’ and ‘responsibility’ within an organisational  This career path was designed to provide greater flexibility. It helps the union to direct resources to where they are most needed. When an employer suggests changes that will harm members – such as redundancies or a transfer of services into the private sector – a team of organisers can be on hand to work with the  structure. (4 marks) 3. Analyse the roles within a typical hierarchical structure, using UNISON as an example. (6 marks) 4. Evaluate why UNISON’s structure is appropriate to the  Exam-style questions  something different.’  1. Describe what a trade union does with reference to  union, giving reasons to support your answer. (8 marks)  branch, supporting members in their workplace.  UNISON | Developing responsiveness through organisational structure  95  