UNISON STUDY  29/8/12  10:35  Page 3  Managing organisational structures The type of structure that a business has reflects how it behaves. It defines its culture or way of working. A highly centralised, hierarchical structure means an organisation is run from the top. It may have a well-known person at its head who makes most of the decisions. A decentralised structure is likely to create a much more democratic culture, where everyone’s opinion is valued. Decisions will often be made by groups of people or in consultation with different layers. It is important for a business to choose a structure that helps it  The national structure of UNISON is centralised with many  operate efficiently. The structure should also help to achieve the  decisions affecting the whole union made by the senior members  organisation’s aims and objectives and make best use of people  and workers in the new UNISON centre. However, UNISON’s  and resources. The main types of business structure are:  culture is one of equality. It is a culture that gives people freedom  • Hierarchical (tall) structure. This means that the business is  to express their views and to be part of decision making.  organised in layers, with the higher layers having more authority  Therefore, some power is given to the regions so that they can  than those below them. The advantage of a tall structure is that  make decisions. Quite often the people in the regions will have a  every role is clearly defined. Decisions can be made quickly by  better idea of local needs. This decentralisation helps UNISON to  those at the top of the organisation but communication may be  be responsive at all levels.  slower as the message has to pass through all the layers. • Horizontal or flat structures. Here there are fewer layers and more people in each layer. Decision making may need to take account of several groups within a layer. However, communication is usually more effective. Flat structures often  ‘I feel there is a genuine ‘no blame’ culture at UNISON. I am able to contribute my opinions to the highest level and be listened to and complimented on my work.’  work well with skilled and motivated workers. • Matrix structures. Sometimes the business needs to use  Whatever the structure, there are certain key features that  people with a variety of skills who are drawn from many parts  are common:  or functional areas of the business such as marketing,  • Span of control – the people for whom a manager is directly  operations, finance and human resources. These can be  responsible. A narrow span means tight control; a wide span  organised into teams to complete projects.  can provide more opportunity for employees to contribute. This can lead to better motivation. There are narrow spans of  UNISON has a complex structure that reflects the complex nature of the work that it carries out. Its structure is split by function and by region. UNISON’s 1,100 staff work in either its new centre on  control in tall structures and wide spans of control in flatter organisations. • Chain of command – how authority passes down the  Euston Road in London or in one of the 12 UK regions. Within each  organisation. It also shows who has power delegated (or  region there are employees responsible for different areas of the  passed down) to them.  union’s work. These areas include health, learning and development, and local government and education. The members are organised into branches throughout Britain and Northern Ireland. This tall structure helps it to act quickly and respond to changes: • The National Executive Council, which is elected by members, can focus on policy and providing leadership. • The UNISON Centre concentrates on providing a range of services to members and the regions such as legal, financial and personnel services. • Regional employees can deal with issues particular to their geographical area e.g. when a local employer announces redundancies. www.thetimes100.co.uk  93  