UNITED UTILITIES STUDY  29/8/12  10:36  Page 3  Drivers for investment  • Payback calculates the length of time needed to recover the money originally invested from the cash generated by the  Businesses invest for many reasons, such as:  project. For example, if an investment of £200,000 is expected  • to grow an existing business. United Utilities expanded by building  to lead to cash flows of £25,000 per year, then the payback  new assets such as storage tanks and water treatment works  period is eight years.  • to replace and improve existing facilities. In United Utilities’ case, this has involved upgrading or replacing sewers and water mains • to meet legal or environmental requirements.  £200,000/£25,000 = 8 years  There were two main drivers for United Utilities to invest in the  However, United Utilities, when appraising any investments, needs  Millom project:  not only to consider the financial return on the investment but also to  1. European legislation. The European Union sets out regulations  assess the benefits to communities and the environment. These are  known as directives. The Bathing Waters Directive sets the  called external benefits. For United Utilities, the private benefits  standards for water quality where people may want to swim or  consist of the revenues from domestic and business customers. The  paddle. Similarly, the Shellfish Directive covers the quality of  wider external benefits include the benefits to local communities, to  water where shellfish may be grown and harvested. Only shellfish  nature lovers, to the environment (including bird and animal life), as  that are cultivated in clean water can be sent to market.  well as cleaner water.  2. Environmental factors relating to the quality of discharged water. The Millom project was designed to improve the quality  Capital investment projects incur costs that need to be quantified.  of wastewater discharged back into the environment.  Internal costs are easy to determine, a major one being the cost of borrowing money (for example, the interest on a loan). Added to this  United Utilities identified a need to improve its management of  are the direct project costs – these include materials, labour etc.  water and waste water in the area around Millom and the Duddon  However, projects can have negative effects on the locality. To arrive  Estuary. It aimed to combine engineering design with a  at the best decision for all relevant stakeholders, any project that  consideration of environmental factors to generate the best  United Utilities engages in requires a careful assessment of both the  solutions. This required working with a range of stakeholders to  commercial costs and revenues and the external costs and benefits.  determine the best possible investment decision. Stakeholders are  The bases for decision-making using cost-benefit analysis are  groups with an interest in a business decision.  summarised in the following formulae:  The investment decision was ultimately based on a cost-benefit analysis. Cost-benefit analysis involves taking into account both financial factors and wider social issues (including  Social benefits less social costs = cost-benefit analysis Social benefit = internal (company) revenues + external benefits Social costs = internal costs + external costs  environmental impact).  External factors affecting investment appraisal  United Utilities is keenly aware of the social costs and benefits of  Any investment requires initial capital expenditure (capex).  invested more than £4,000 for every household in the North West.  Appraising an investment project involves weighing up the likely  The benefits of these investments include:  future return on that investment (ROI) against the expenditure.  • halving leaks from water networks  Methods often used include calculating the Accounting Rate of  • improved compliance with bathing water standards from 30%  Return and the Payback period: • Accounting Rate of Return (ARR) is calculated as the average  its investments and always seeks to maximise the social benefits whilst minimising the social costs. Since 1990 United Utilities has  to 90% across the North West • improving water quality to the best that it has ever been.  annual profit that is expected over the life of the investment project compared with the amount of capital invested. For example, if the investment in a project is £200,000 and the expected profit is £15,000 a year, then the ARR is 7.5%.  15,000/200,000 x 100% = 7.5%  www.thetimes100.co.uk  97  