UNITED UTILITIES STUDY  29/8/12  10:36  Page 4  All possible solutions when costed out were over the original budget. Therefore the partners in the plan engaged in a costbenefit analysis to identify which of the three options put forward gave the best return against all factors.  As a project always has the potential for both positive and negative external effects, United Utilities seeks to quantify these to help select the best overall decision from its range of options. The following sections show the basis for such decisions relating to the Millom project. These include the costing criteria and how the options specifically met stakeholder needs.  Investment for the Millom project The original budget for the Millom project was set at £14.5m. However, this was before a full evaluation of the social costs was carried out. Having consulted with the Environment Agency, United Utilities aimed to identify the best possible solution for its shareholders, the environment, local communities and other stakeholders. The key considerations were: 1. the initial capital outlay of the project (capex) 2. the ongoing operating expenditure from running the project (opex) 3. the wider costs and benefits to the environment and other stakeholders.  Option 1. Small scale upgrade to the site and using ultraviolet rays  The whole-life cost assessment of the solutions involved examining capital costs of construction (e.g. concrete structures, pumps and pipe work) as well as operating costs – e.g. power and chemicals for treatment. Although option 1 had a significantly lower initial capital outlay, originally United Utilities had discounted options 1 and 3 as the application of the technology was new to the company and the regulator, so more data was needed to accept the solution. This only left option 2, despite it being the most costly and potentially having a negative impact on the environment. However, United Utilities found positive evidence from colleagues at Welsh Water to demonstrate how the ultraviolet treatment processes could be used effectively. It then worked closely with the Environment Agency to ensure the project minimised the negative external costs and maximised the external benefits. This resulted in United Utilities adopting option 1 as the most innovative, cost-effective and environmentally beneficial option that in some way satisfied all stakeholders. The key reasons were: • It had the lowest capex and whole-life cost - the infrastructure for option 1 can be contained within the existing waterworks/treatment works site. • Its carbon footprint and environmental impact was lowest - it minimises the use of concrete and construction waste. • When storms and heavy rain occur the excess water is treated with ultraviolet disinfection and is discharged into the estuary. This eliminates strong odours that would have affected the local community and delivers benefits to the shellfish and bathing waters.  Key elements  Whole-life cost  Benefits  Risks and issues  Lowest capex, but  £18.5m  Uses least land and  High power and other operating  lowest initial capex  costs. Uses a technique in a  higher opex  in tubes to kill bacteria in  new way for United Utilities and  wastewater to improve quality  the Environment Agency in the North West  2. Create new large storage and pipe work requirements  3. Major site upgrade and using ultraviolet in tubes to kill off  Highest capex but  £22.8m  relatively low opex  Middle for capex and opex  £21.3m  Confident that the  Over budget. Results in very  solution would work and  large concrete structures that  deliver the benefits  generate waste for disposal  Uses a little less land  Over budget. Uses a technique  than option 2  in a new way for UU and EA  bacteria  98  www.thetimes100.co.uk  