UNITED UTILITIES STUDY  29/8/12  10:36  Page 5  www.unitedutilities.com  Working with stakeholders  Conclusion  In a public service industry like water, gas or electricity, it is essential  United Utilities is a major partner in the economic life of the North  to make investment decisions that respect the requirements of many  West. It manages huge reservoirs such as Thirlmere and  different stakeholders. United Utilities sought to find a solution that  Haweswater in Cumbria and treats the wastewater from homes  met with commercial criteria, met budget and also minimised  and businesses across the North West before disposing of it  negative impacts on the community. By working closely with the  safely back to the environment. It is committed, through  Environment Agency, United Utilities was able to come up with a  investments, to providing sustainable solutions to business and  socially and environmentally acceptable solution.  environmental challenges. The company recognises that quality management begins at the start of the water production process  Stakeholders in the Millom project  Fishermen in the Duddon estuary area  Utilities keeps its catchment land as clean and sustainable  United Utilities shareholders  as possible.  Employees  Stakeholders in improving water and waste water  Nature lovers  and continues right down to safe discharge of wastewater. United  Local communities  The Environment Agency (environment regulator)  In the Millom project, United Utilities was faced with a number of drivers requiring better water management to meet consumer  OFWAT (economic regulator)  needs, legislation and environmental demands. It responded by identifying three alternative options and then working with the Environment Agency to identify the solution which offered the best  In terms of satisfying stakeholders, United Utilities considered (and  value for money and long term sustainability.  by selecting option 1) fulfilled the following key requirements: 1. Convinced its own shareholders that the decision was good in  The use of cost-benefit analysis meant that the chosen solution  terms of financial criteria and maintaining the excellent  minimised financial costs and limited the impact on the local  reputation of the company.  landscape whilst giving acceptable benefits to shareholders,  2. Convinced the Environment Agency that wastewater would be  the local community and the environment.  treated to the required standards so that the EU directives could be met in this area of the North West. 3. Demonstrated to landowners that their land rights would be  1. Describe how stakeholders affect a business and its  respected and that huge areas of land would not be taken  investments. (2 marks) 2. Explain the benefits of effective investment appraisal  4. Provided fishermen and consumers of shellfish with good  for the company and its stakeholders. (4 marks)  quality stocks and supplies.  3. Compare the advantages and disadvantages of using  5. Provided swimmers with bathing waters that are of a high standard.  a cost-benefit analysis of an investment rather than using ARR or Payback alone. (6 marks)  The table below summarises the financial and environmental  4. Evaluate how you might carry out an investment  impacts considered as part of the investment appraisal in order to  project of your choice (e.g. a new school building or  assess the overall impact of the three options. This clearly shows  the development of a local sports centre) to take into  how option 1 provided the most effective balance of commercial  account a range of stakeholder interests. (8 marks)  Exam-style questions  away from them.  and environmental factors. Capex (£m)  Whole-life cost (£m)  Carbon (tonnes) from construction  Carbon (tonnes per year) from operating the site  1. Minor changes to site + UV treatment  15.8  18.5  5127  273  2. Storing wastewater in concrete structures  24.0  22.8  8719  827  3. Major changes to site + UV treatment  22.0  21.3  6553  349  Option  United Utilities | Using cost-benefit analysis to appraise investments  99  