UNITED UTILITIES STUDY  29/8/12  10:36  Page 2  FINANCE  Using cost-benefit analysis to appraise investments  Introduction  including working with young people in schools from Year 9 upwards. United Utilities encourages the take up of Science,  Every morning millions of people in the UK have a bath or shower,  Technology, Engineering and Maths subjects in schools. It also  make a cup of tea and wash the dishes before they start the day.  emphasises the importance of learning about the environment.  Thousands of businesses use water in hundreds of different ways – from hairdressers and hospitals to factories and farms. Yet most  In the period from 2010 to 2015 United Utilities will invest more  people do not consider where water comes from or where it goes  than £3 billion to improve the water and wastewater infrastructure  once they have finished using it.  and the environment across the North West. As a commerciallyoperated business which provides a public service, United Utilities  It is the job of United Utilities to bring three million households and  seeks to carry out all its projects in the most cost-effective way.  200,000 businesses in North West England an incredible 2,000  It embraces cost-saving innovations without compromising the  million litres of clean water each day – and take it all away again. It  service to customers. A breakdown of where this money is spent  then treats it to make it safe to go back into the environment  is illustrated below.  through rivers and the sea. United Utilities has a licence to provide water and sewerage services to around seven million people in North West England.  Water treatment & mains  Water treatment & mains  Ofwat, the economic regulator, is responsible for overseeing companies like United Utilities to ensure they meet their  Improving the quality of our assets  obligations to customers. These obligations include meeting standards of service and charging fair prices. United Utilities also  Maintaining our assets  has to meet strict environmental standards set by the Environment Agency which manages discharges to the environment. These relate to the water quality of rivers, shellfish and bathing waters along the North West coastline.  United Utilities spend between 2010 and 2015 > £3bn  Water treatment & sewers  Water treatment & sewers  Water  To deliver these services, United Utilities employs over 5,000  S&D*  skilled employees, from apprentices to graduates, with diverse skills. These range from engineers, scientists and project managers to operational colleagues running the treatment works.  Waste water  *S&D = Supply and demand expenditure to meet population growth  Equally important are the frontline customer-facing employees and those staff in support functions such as finance, HR and IT.  This case study examines one major wastewater quality improvement investment made by United Utilities. This was for a  United Utilities has to consider how its decisions affect its various  bathing waters and shellfish waters project in Millom, a coastal  stakeholder groups including customers, shareholders, local  area in Cumbria in North West England. It shows how important  councils, MPs, the media and the wider community. United Utilities  non-financial considerations, such as the impact on the  recognises its responsibility to the community in many ways,  environment, were in arriving at the best decision.  96  Curriculum topics covered: • Cost-benefit analysis • Average rate of return • Payback • Stakeholders  