ZURICH STUDY 1  29/8/12  10:37  Page 5  www.zurich.co.uk  Good quality should also be reflected in the bottom line – in sales Developing and promoting products and services  74%  Giving clear information and good service at point of sale  94%  Maintaining effective relationships  82%  and profits. In many service industries, the quality of service is the key factor that helps a business to outperform its rivals. High levels of customer care create high levels of customer satisfaction  Another measure of how well a business is delivering on its promises are awards from within its own industry. Recent awards for Zurich include two Five Star Service Awards at the FT Financial Adviser Awards. This followed an intensive voting process involving 25,000 questionnaires – the biggest poll in the financial services industry. Zurich also received an Outstanding Achievement Award at the FT Adviser Online Service Awards 2011 in recognition of the way that it has maintained a level of excellence since the awards began five years ago.  which can give the business a competitive advantage. In the Financial Services industry, products and prices can appear very similar to customers so customer care is the differentiating factor between providers. Customers that have a positive experience are much more likely to renew their policies, buy other products and services and recommend the company to others. Not managing quality could lead to disappointed customers who could easily choose to take their business elsewhere. Zurich's customer care sets it apart from others in the industry, maximising potential to retain its customers.  Conclusion A quality product or service is one that does what it is supposed to do – that is, meet customer requirements for its target market. For a business, therefore, quality is based on knowing what customers need and expect and meeting these demands. A business that is serious about quality does more. Zurich aims not only to meet customer expectations, but also to exceed them. Zurich puts quality at the centre of how it does business. It actively manages and measures the quality of the service it provides to make sure its customers receive the best possible level of customer care.  Benefits of managing quality There are costs involved in setting up systems to manage and improve quality. It requires staff to spend time in training or in monitoring processes. It requires investment in quality measurement systems. The costs of running large-scale customer surveys are significant both in time and money. However, direct feedback is essential in order that a business understands what its customers think about its service and, importantly, what it can do 1. Describe what is meant by ‘quality’. (2 marks)  recognises that these costs are a good investment and that the  2. Explain why managing quality is important to a  benefits of managing quality outweigh these costs.  business. (4 marks) 3. Why do you think the iQUALITY and the ‘five whys’  Providing quality services delivers benefits to the business. It can gain savings from having more efficient staff and processes, higher productivity and fewer rework costs. Some benefits are harder to  approaches help to achieve quality customer service at Zurich? (6 marks) 4. Evaluate the different ways that quality can be managed.  measure but also add value within the business, such as improved  Which of these do you think is most important to Zurich?  staff morale and motivation. These help to retain staff, build  Give reasons for your answer. (8 marks)  Exam-style questions  next to increase their loyalty. A quality-conscious business  experience within the business and save on recruitment costs. Zurich | Creating quality customer care  107  