ZURICH STUDY 1  29/8/12  10:36  Page 3  The ability to meet customer needs and expectations and deliver  This is known as quality control (QC). This procedure is most often  on its core promise determines how customers feel about the  used in product manufacturing. The process involves testing a  Zurich brand. To ensure that customers have a positive  sample of the product as it comes off the production line.  experience, Zurich focuses on:  Putting things right at the end of a process is often costly. In a  • clearly identifying customer needs  manufacturing environment, extra items must be made to replace  • effective planning and processes  the faulty products. There will also be costs in terms of the staff  • putting in place the right resources (people and systems) for  time needed to put things right and other resources. For example,  the job  it may not be possible to recover or re-use the materials from  • providing in-depth employee training to ensure that all staff are  faulty products.  customer focused • setting appropriate and achievable targets  In a service industry, a quality control approach is rarely enough to  • continuous measuring and monitoring of progress against  maintain standards. This is because many aspects of a service are  these targets.  only realised as they are delivered to customers. For example, an insurance company can only deal with a claim on a policy when  Zurich has developed a way of helping its employees to deliver  the customer makes a claim.  quality consistently to customers and has called it iQUALITY. This acronym is designed to help define what quality looks like at  This is why many businesses use other ways of managing quality.  Zurich. It reminds staff that quality is a key part of every interaction  One approach is quality assurance (QA). Quality is not simply  they have with customers.  considered at the end of a process but at every stage. Processes or procedures can be measured against set standards or ‘best practice’ benchmarks within the industry.  i Q U A L I T Y  You, me , everyone Question  Total quality management (TQM) is an approach that seeks to  Understand  ensure that all parts of a process are ‘right first time’. The aim is for ‘zero defects’. A TQM approach requires every employee to  Act  take responsibility for delivering quality. TQM looks at improving  Lead  both the people and processes involved in the business through  Inspire  continuous improvement.  Teamwork You  iQUALITY  Zurich’s approach to managing quality uses a combination of the methods above. Firstly, it uses iQUALITY to embody the principles of TQM, helping to bring this to life in the minds of its employees  Zurich recognises that quality is not a ‘one-off’ process. Its  so they apply it to the customer care experience every day.  commitment to providing a world-class service requires that it  Secondly, Zurich carries out regular quality sampling of the  continuously listens to its customers’ changing needs and  customer care it provides and the outputs it produces, e.g. letters  expectations. It puts in place the appropriate processes and  and benefit statements. The amount of quality sampling carried  people to meet these needs. Employees play a crucial role in  out depends on the level of the employee's experience and the  delivering quality service. Zurich encourages its staff to:  complexity of the task.  • ‘see...the benefits of getting things right, first time, every time • hear...what our customers want, keep our promises and deliver • feel…empowered and add value to the business and the customer experience • think…about how customers perceive Zurich.’  Managing quality Quality can be managed in several ways. It can be measured at the end of a process to make sure that any sub-standard products do not reach customers. www.thetimes100.co.uk  105  