ZURICH STUDY 1  29/8/12  10:36  Page 2  O P E R AT I O N S  Creating quality customer care  Introduction  In a service industry many companies offer broadly similar products. Quality is one way in which Zurich can differentiate its  Zurich Insurance Group provides insurance and other financial  services from those of its competitors. It puts delivering quality  services to both individuals and businesses. The group has more  customer service at the heart of everything it does.  than 130 years experience and is one of the world’s largest insurance groups. It has more than 60,000 employees and  Zurich's ambition is to be the best global insurer as measured by  operates in over 170 countries. In the UK alone, Zurich has over  its customers, shareholders and employees. Zurich demonstrates  two million live policies and each month its Life business handles  its commitment to achieve its ambition through the Zurich Basics.  300,000 interactions with customers by telephone and mail, as  This is its code of conduct for all employees based around five  well as a further 300,000 email and internet enquiries.  core values – Integrity, Customer Centricity, Excellence, Sustainable Value Creation and Teamwork.  Zurich products and services include insurance for properties, accidents, cars and life. The aim of insurance is to help people and businesses protect themselves financially if something goes wrong. There can be major financial consequences if expensive assets like buildings and cars are damaged. People need assurance that they will not suffer if someone is unable to work, requires extensive treatment or care because of an accident or dies.  This case study examines how Zurich brings quality to life in the care it provides for its customers every day.  What is quality? Quality can be described as ‘fit for purpose’. Note that quality does not necessarily equate to ‘luxury’. For example, if someone wants to hire an economical and easy-to-park car, then a model  The policy holder has the reassurance that if something goes wrong, the consequences are managed and Zurich’s insurance will, at least financially, help to put things right. In exchange for its customers paying money in regular premiums (over a specified period of time) Zurich promises that it will be there when it is needed.  such as a Smart car would adequately meet the customer’s need so would be fit for purpose. Providing anything of a higher standard would be an unnecessary cost. Quality is linked to what the customer needs and expects. If a product meets these needs and expectations, then it can be considered a quality product. Quality is also linked to the target market of a business. The level of quality required to be fit for purpose is different depending on the types of customers a business deals with. For example, a customer willing to pay £50 per night for a hotel room will have lower expectations than a customer willing to pay £200 per night. However, in both cases, the customer will consider whether the quality of the room is fit for purpose based on the amount they have spent. Quality is equally relevant to a service business as to a manufacturing one. Zurich must therefore establish what its customers need and expect. It must deliver on its promise to be there when its customers need assistance efficiently and courteously.  104  Curriculum topics covered: • Quality control • Quality assurance • TQM • Measuring quality  