ZURICH 2  29/8/12  10:36  Page 2  FINANCE  The benefits of budgeting  Introduction  Zurich’s ethos is underpinned by its core values:  Zurich Insurance Group is a leading global provider of insurance services. Zurich’s mission is to help customers understand and protect themselves from risk. The company employs 60,000 staff  Integrity  Openness, reliability and honesty  Customer centricity  Putting the customer first and at the centre of all operations  Sustainable value creation  Generating value for customers and shareholders on a secure, long-term basis  Excellence  Quality in management, operations and products  Teamwork  Pursuing strategy through sharing expertise and ideas  and serves customers in 170 countries around the world. Zurich offers General Insurance and Life Insurance products, for example: • General Insurance: car insurance, home buildings and contents insurance • Life assurance: life insurance, investment and pension plans. Zurich offers its products to retail customers (mainly individuals) and corporate customers (i.e. businesses).  A key component of Zurich’s values is corporate responsibility. Life is full of uncertainty. The building you work in could catch fire.  Being a responsible company is fundamental to Zurich’s long-term  Your computer could be stolen. You may have an accident. These  sustainability. For example, Zurich Community Trust in the UK  are all risks with a small but real probability that they may occur.  actively helps over 600 charities make a difference to the lives of  Insurance provides protection against that risk. In return for a fee  thousands every year.  (a premium) it provides a financial payment in the event of financial/personal loss.  Insurance is an extremely competitive market. Customers will obtain quotes to find the best value either from Zurich directly or  So what makes Zurich one of the leading insurance companies? It  through a financial adviser. This case study shows how Zurich’s  starts with Zurich’s brand, reputation for quality customer service  careful approach to budgeting is a contributory factor in gaining  and solid financial strength. The insurance industry is tightly  competitive advantage.  regulated, requiring strict standards and highly skilled finance professionals. Zurich, therefore, aims to attract the best graduates.  What is budgeting? An organisation must earn enough revenue so that, after all costs have been subtracted, there is a profit remaining. One of the most useful financial tools is the budget. A budget is a business plan expressed in financial terms. Budgets can be drawn up for sales, costs or investment spending. A budget will include a degree of prediction of performance which is usually based on past data e.g. sales.  100  Curriculum topics covered: • Types of budgets • Setting a budget • Using a budget • Benefits of budgeting  