ZURICH 2  29/8/12  10:36  Page 4  Setting and using budgets Having established the core financial objectives, often referred to as key performance indicators, the strategies to achieve them can be set in one of two main ways. The budgeting process can be: • 'top-down' - i.e. set by senior managers and directed downwards, often based on previous results • ‘bottom-up’ - i.e. evolving upwards from middle managers, through the use of detailed analysis, for confirmation by senior management.  Challenges of effective budgeting  In practice, at Zurich there are elements of  Suppose sales volume, prices and costs were all projected to rise  both approaches.  annually by 10% (incremental budgeting). This would make  Senior management  budgeting easy, but it is highly unlikely. To increase sales may  undertakes the top-  require price reductions and discounts. Successive rises in sales  down 'ambition  volume might bring economies of scale, but might need  setting'. This gives the  investment to expand production in order to meet that demand.  strategic context.  Senior managers set strategy and key assumptions  Business Partners  Managers then Effective budgeting is full of challenges. Whilst financial accounts  consider historical  relate to the past, budgets are about the future. All data is therefore  data, prevailing trends  planned rather than actual, probable rather than definite. Budgets are  and any new drivers  based on a number of assumptions. Some of these are explicit, such  in order to formulate  as what the cost of labour and raw materials will be or what market  proposed budgets.  Middle managers respond with detailed proposals*  Back to senior managers to confirm  * For each department  research results indicate about likely customer demand. Others are more implicit. A change in leadership in the sales team, a good relationship with a new supplier or changes in the organisation's external environment could all affect budget projections.  Zurich Business Partners help to ensure 'joined-up budgeting' between areas of the business: • Revenue centres generate income. They prepare sales budgets. • Cost centres generate expenses. They prepare operating or  Zurich may face unanticipated changes in legal or financial regulations or a change in market dynamics brought about by economic factors or the actions of competitors. An insurer needs to  production budgets. • The profit budget draws together all the budgets for revenues and costs to meet overall financial objectives.  predict the risks its insurance policies protect against, both shortterm risks, such as floods and earthquakes and longer-term risks,  An alternative approach to incremental budgeting is zero-based  such as mortality rates. Budgets also need to reflect the business’  budgeting. This means that each expenditure budget starts with a  need to invest in specific projects or long-term improvements.  zero allocation each year. Managers must justify each element of the budget they propose. This has the advantage of making managers  Budgets may also cause conflict between departments. For  think proactively about what funds they need. It also avoids the  example, the allocation of additional budget to sales and marketing  tendency simply to add a percentage of the previous year’s budget  could result in operational areas receiving a reduced budget. Within  or assume that expenditure will remain the same. However, one  Zurich, conflict between departments is resolved with the help of  major disadvantage of this approach is the increased demand on  Business Partners. These work with the different departments to  staff time, which is an expensive resource with an opportunity cost.  achieve an appropriate and fair division of the budget, in line with the business’ and senior management’s objectives.  The first results against budget may show that the business is not exactly on target. The budget then becomes a ‘dashboard’ to  Analysing budgeting data may uncover opportunities that would  assess all the factors and make the necessary changes to reach  otherwise have remained hidden. Therefore budgets must be set  goals. Variance analysis is used to identify differences between  using the best information available but have flexibility in order to  budgeted and actual figures. This can be demonstrated using the  respond to the changing business environment.  illustrative expenditure budget for UK Life.  102  www.thetimes100.co.uk  