ZURICH STUDY 1  29/8/12  10:36  Page 4  For example, work produced by a new recruit may initially be subject to QA whereas, for an experienced employee, quality sampling will normally be carried out as a percentage of the work they complete. If the quality sampling for the experienced employee identifies a trend of errors, the percentage of quality sampling may be increased. In practice, it is difficult to remove errors completely from a business process. To drive continuous improvement, what an organisation can do is identify errors and put them right. Zurich uses a process known as ‘root cause analysis’. This is a way to find out why something went wrong and to find ways to stop it from happening again. Zurich applies the ‘five whys’ approach to root cause analysis. Staff involved in quality management look at the 'trigger' that brings attention to the problem and then  It is also important for a business to capture and regularly review the  repeatedly ask 'why', probing deeper, until the true root cause is  results of its quality management processes against its own or  discovered. Once this is identified, Zurich can devise a suitable  industry-set benchmark standards. This can help to identify problem  solution to stop it happening again and then monitor outcomes to  areas and enable preventative steps to be taken to correct the  make sure that the solution is addressing the problem.  problem or prevent it from getting worse. Unidentified problems may lead to inferior service which, in turn, could reduce customer satisfaction. Zurich uses a quality framework to regularly review the results of its quality measurements against benchmark standards.  Problem Why Why Why Why Why Cause  Resolve  A business may also use measures set by outside bodies such the British Standards Institute (BSI) or against the performance of other businesses in its industry. As a provider of financial services, in the UK Zurich is regulated by the Financial Services Authority  For example, one issue facing Zurich was that it was receiving a  (FSA). This sets out rules and regulations covering all aspects of  number of similar complaints from customers about not receiving  the business, including the concept of Treating Customers Fairly.  payments promptly when their savings policies matured (came to  Zurich’s approach to customer centricity aims to go beyond the  an end). The complaints were the ‘trigger’ in this case. Using the  requirements and standards set out by the FSA and BSI.  ‘five whys’ approach, Zurich found the root cause was that the manual process for issuing claim packs and sending payments for  As a global business, Zurich aims to be the best insurer as  these policies was causing delays. Zurich changed the process so  measured by all its main stakeholder groups – its customers, its  that packs are now sent out earlier and the payments are sent out  shareholders and its employees. For a customer-focused business,  automatically 10 days before a policy matures. This ensures  levels of customer satisfaction are one of the most important  customers receive payment promptly. There has since been a  measures. Zurich aims to be in the top 25% of insurance providers  78% fall in complaints related to this issue.  for customer satisfaction. High customer satisfaction scores should be reflected in repeat business and growth in sales. Zurich conducts  Measuring quality  extensive market research with large numbers of customers. This helps managers to understand how far the company is meeting  In order to measure quality, a business needs to establish key  customer needs. Zurich also uses an independent measure called  measures to track how well it is meeting standards. It could, for  the TRI*M index. This assesses how well different parts of the  example, measure how many customers buy other products from  business are satisfying customer requirements.  the company (repeat business) or how fast it responds to customer queries (customer response rates). Zurich’s UK Life  As part of its customer impact scheme, Zurich asks customers to  business deals with over half a million calls, emails and letters a  rate the company’s performance. Most recent results show that  month. Just 0.3% of these are complaints. Zurich is quick to  most customers rate Zurich as good, very good or excellent in the  respond to any complaints or issues raised by its customers.  three key areas aligned to its business objectives.  106  www.thetimes100.co.uk  