ZURICH 2  29/8/12  10:36  Page 3  It is important that it is a realistic financial plan that the business can  Benefits of budgeting  fulfil. Managers at all levels will have their own budget plans, designed to co-ordinate with and contribute to the overall plan or master  Budgets are a financial representation of an organisation’s strategy.  budget. Therefore, managers need to be involved in contributing  The process of budgeting requires managers to plan ahead, for  information to the budget to which they will be committed.  example, to identify the resources required to meet targets. This is particularly important in the insurance industry due to the complex  Budgets should be stretching but achievable. They should enable  nature of the products offered. Insurance generally addresses  companies to meet both short- and long-term financial and strategic  medium- and long-term needs of customers. Decisions taken now  objectives whilst providing motivational targets (potentially linked to  are likely to have financial implications for many years to come.  bonus payments) for managers to promote the right behaviours. All budgets must be carefully monitored, reviewed and, if appropriate,  For example, in the UK, Zurich  re-assessed as internal factors (e.g. a major project costs  offers a protection product which  significantly less or more than expected) and external factors  provides a payment in the event  (e.g. regulatory developments) change.  of the death of the policyholder to pay off an outstanding mortgage. Typically, this product  Profit objectives are set by the company  offers protection for 15 to 25 years. Zurich guarantees a price to the policyholder for the whole  Sales budgets are determined to allow profit objectives to be met  term. If the outcome is different to that which was assumed when the price was set (e.g. fewer or more deaths occur or fewer or more  Production budgets are drawn up which illustrate the costs required to meet the planned sales  policies are cancelled than expected), Zurich will either make a profit or a loss on that product. Due to the long-term nature of these products any profit will emerge over many years.  Zurich has three core business segments: General Insurance (e.g. car, home), Global Life (e.g. life assurance, pensions and  The budgeting process can be used for monitoring and control of  investments) and Farmers (core North-American business). These  financial performance. Results can be reviewed as frequently as  segments are divided into regions, for example Europe, and then  necessary against budgets to identify good and poor performance  into business units, for example UK Life. Through discussion with  areas. Managers need to investigate the difference or variance  various stakeholders, budgets are set for each business unit, with  between budgeted and actual results. Where actual figures are  the combined budgets supporting Zurich’s overall corporate aims.  worse than budgeted, these are called adverse variances. Adverse variances may suggest problems. Where budgets are not being  For example, the table below shows the revenue and expense  met, action can be taken. Budget targets can be highly motivational  budgets for UK Life. The expenses budget is broken down by  and staff who meet or exceed budgeted targets may be rewarded  function. (All figures are for illustration only.)  with bonuses.  UK Life – Revenue and Expense budget (6 months to end June 2012) JANUARY  FEBRUARY  MARCH  APRIL  MAY  JUNE  48  62  70  63  66  61  Sales  9  11  13  12  12  14  Propositions  6  7  8  7  8  9  Revenue budget 2012 (£m) Expenses budget 2012 (£m)  Operations  14  19  21  19  20  22  Finance  4  5  6  5  5  6  IT  8  11  12  9  11  13  2  3  3  2  3  3  43  56  63  54  59  67  Control function Total  www.thetimes100.co.uk  101  